---
layout: post
title: Chapter 16
---

Allison's characterization of his sense of justice stung a little bit.  In
fact, everything about talking with her stung a little bit, and what a thrill
that was.  It's not often that you are tempted to tell someone that their most
attractive feature is their tongue.

Putting aside the confluence of his wit and his libido, Chip went home and
busied himself getting set for a truly deep dive into the layers of computer
networks that made up a modern city.  Nothing technological ever went away and
even 20 years ago when Chip was just getting started logging into various
forums and websites, governments were already a bewildering amalgamation of
legacy computer systems.  Sometimes, an outdated system that broke down even
needed to be emulated using a custom-made program on a newer computer system.

It had been over a decade since those early high school days of exploration,
but very little ever changed in this world, so certainly the proliferation of
outdated computer systems that kept governments running would have continued
apace.  The reason this excited the slightly lawless part of Chip's problem
solving mind was that the numerous interfaces between all of these different
systems each exposed a possible chink in the city's armor.  It was just a
matter of finding the joints between the scales on the slimy underbelly of the
government IT systems.

What Chip was about to do was of questionable legality.  Anti-hacking laws
were as ridiculous and draconian as ever and any person who read an article
that described how to circumvent the copy protection on a movie file could
potentially be charge with a felony.  At the same time, open access laws for
government had been expanded in the computer age with a series of lawsuits
opening up more and more of the government's data stores for direct public
scrutiny.  Chip hoped desperately that the mild hacking he was about to engage
in would someday be seen as accessing data that belonged to the citizens
rather than as violating the security of a sensitive government computer
system.

In spite of his hope, Chip took some precautions.  In addition to the large
carafe of cold-brewed coffee concentrate that he lovingly prepared, he also
set out a series of prepaid data SIM cards.  None of the major carriers would
carry these anymore, but there were still open access laws for the wireless
spectrum, so small carriers could pop up to sell what the big companies would
never stoop to: burner data plans.  Similar to prepaid cell phones that used
to be used by criminals and then dropped in trash bins, now it was burner SIM
cards which could similarly be used to push bits anonymously onto the global
networks and then discarded when they were used up.  The best restrictions
that the lawyers had been able to get limited the amount of data that could be
sold this way without an account.  So Chip had quite a stack of cards on the
desk in front of him.

Putting in his custom molded ear buds, Chip put on some soft downtempo
electronica to soothe his inner critic and enter what programmers thought of
as the zone, a place where what were only complicated patterns of
electrostatic charges in silicon wafers scattered around the planet began to
take on abstract analogic patterns in the mind of the programmer.  Navigating
the inconsistencies of these analogies was the essence of programming and of
hacking.

Rather than switching his phone off to preserve the focus necessary for this
work, Chip instead pulled the tracked and snooped Verizon SIM from his phone
and slotted in the first burner SIM card.  Now, as far as the global network
was concerned, Chip's phone had ceased to exist and a new one had turned on
and no messages would be routed to him because this new phone had never
existed before so no one would ever message it.

Chip didn't know exactly what he was looking for, but he began at the
beginning on the city's official website.  With a little digging, he found the
place where they stored old meeting announcements and agendas but there was no
sign that those listings were ever updated with anything after the meeting
happened.  In a completely separate part of the city's website, he found the
place where minutes were posted from official board of supervisors meetings,
but since this had been an ad hoc task force, they weren't publishing minutes
in the same places.

On a hunch, chip tried the city's energy management department to see if he
could find any information on the room where the meeting had been held.  In an
effort to tout their environmental friendliness, the city was posting live
graphs of energy usage and production from the photovoltaic roofing tiles that
they had recently installed with a grant from the federal government.  He
could scan back over the previous days to see the electricity demand of each
city building on an hourly basis, but all he could tell from that was that
the building had been running its lights and climate control that evening as
opposed to all of the other evenings when it was basically turned off
energy-wise.

From that dead end, Chip was led to the city engineer's office where he found
his first chink in the armor.  In another abortive attempt at transparency,
someone at the engineer's office had set up a shared document space so that
people could presumably track the status of building permits online.  Due to
an error in the default configuration (well publicized on various web forums),
this software ended up sharing the entire contents of the computer where it
was installed in the same document-oriented interface that was used for the
building permits.  Since this was something done at about the level of a summer
internship, the computer that had been designated for this was just a basic
office PC that seemed to mostly be used for writing grant proposals and nasty
letters to people who didn't keep their lawn mowed.

Chip worked his way back in time through the proposals as he tried to build up
a mental version of the structure of the city's computer systems.  This was
complicated by the fact that it was hard to tell which of these grant
proposals had been funded and built, so for each one he had to go searching
around to see if he could find other evidence that the systems that were
discussed had actually come into existence.  In most cases, directing Google
to search through the minutes of the finance sub-committee of the Board of
Supervisors would reveal a discussion of the reimbursement from this agency or
that.

When Chip had waded back in time to the early teens, he found his next chink
in the armor.  There was a proposal to get money for video surveillance
equipment for city buildings.  Apparently the school shooting fad had stirred
up enough fear among state bureaucrats that they had put up a pool of money
for cities to install cameras in all of their buildings.  It was obvious that
the intended use was for school districts and hospitals and such, but the
skinflints in Fredrickton had decided that they should apply for a system that
would blanket the whole municipal building.  Since much of the space was
shared between the city and the county and the school board, they argued that
they needed cameras in every meeting room, since there was no telling when you
might be holding a school board meeting in the planning and zoning office and
some second amendment nut showed up on the wrong night.

Like the others, there was no notation on whether or not the project had ever
been funded and the company specified in the proposal didn't show up in the
finance minutes anywhere.  A bit stumped, but beginning to feel a glimmer of
truth glinting at the end of this rabbit hole, Chip went and read the news
reports on the company that was supposed to have built the system that the
city was going to buy.  He found that they had been acquired by a larger
competitor right around the time that the grant proposal would have been going
through.

The larger competitor's name hit the jackpot in the minutes.  There had been a
purchase made from them that had to be discussed in committee before the check
could be cut, even though they were just spending someone else's money.
Reading up on the company's product line and the few specifications that
appeared in the original grant proposal, Chip was able to make a pretty good
guess about just which system the city had installed.  It looked like the
cameras would all feed their footage back to a central server whic could then
be accessed via a web interface from inside the city's network.  Not everyone
in the world could watch what happened in every room in every city building,
just anyone on the city's network.

With a tiny slip towards the Computer Fraud and Abuse Act, Chip inserted
himself into the public library's wireless network.  Now it looked to the rest
of the network as if he was sitting in one of the library's electronic reading
rooms.  From there, it was a simple shortcut through the circulation
computers using a publicly disclosed security vulnerability that would never
be fixed on these computers because the operating system they were running was
so old that the company who made it had stopped issuing security updates for
it.  Now, Chip was working from within the city's internal network and it took
some guessing, but he was eventually able to pull up the web front end of the
video recording system.

Now, he was a little bit stuck, both ethically and legally.  The login prompt
asked for a username and password and included a disclaimer to the effect that
unauthorized use was a violation of relevant statutes at the federal level,
obviously put there by the company who made the system to make themselves
sound tough.  Chip hesitated to break the law quite so directly in this
hare-brained scheme and he felt like he would be crossing some kind of line if
he broke in directly through the front door.

As a way around to the back door, Chip backtracked a few steps and forged some
emails from the work computer of a library staff member asking for access to
the video server to track a persistent book thief.  The final chink in the
armor was that the system that granted access to the video server
automatically replied with a new username and password to any email that it
received from a city employee. So, by sending a fake email as a city employee,
Chip got a quick and friendly response that invited him to walk right in
through the front door, no breaking and entering needed.

Now he was in where he had hoped to be when he started.  There were directory
listings sorted by date and for each day there were folders for each camera in
the system.  He considered reviewing the tapes from the police station to see
if he could blow the whistle on Detective Parsons for donut emebezzling or
some such minor ethics violation, but he kept his eye on the prize and clicked
through to date of that fateful evening meeting.  It took a while to figure
out the naming convention used for the cameras, but comparing the city map
against the directory names, he made a guess and pulled up a listing of 24
files, one for each hour of the day.

His pulse raced a little bit as he scrolled down to the file for the 7:00
hour.  He was screwing up the courage to start watching when the first of his
SIM cards ran dry.

"Shit!" he screamed into his empty apartment.  His zone was interrupted and he
was surprised to see that while he had been deep in the world that existed
inside his screen, the sun had gone down in the world that existed all around
him.  Now, sitting in his dark apartment illuminated only by the glow of the
computer screen, Chip had to take a deep breath as he realized what he was
about to do.  Exhaling that breath, he jacked in the next SIM card and took a
few shortcuts to get quickly back to where he had been when his data supply
ran out.

He tried clicking on the file to start watching, but it was in some esoteric
video compression format that his browser didn't understand.  He had to be
content downloading the file onto his laptop and while he was at it, he
grabbed the files for the rest of the hours up until midnight.  He went
through a couple more SIM cards before he got all of the video from that
night, although the last file was considerably smaller since the compression
algorithm didn't need to store the blank picture of the darkened room more
than once.

The video player already on his computer didn't know how to play the file
either, but Chip easily found an open source video player that numbered the
strange surveillance camera format among the hundreds of codecs that it could
handle.  Inhaling and exhaling again, Chip started the tape playing.  It was
very strange to see himself as a tiny little person in the extremely wide
angle view of the meeting room.  The camera was up high in the back of the
room looking over the shoulders of the board into the faces of the audience.
It captured the whole audience, but the people in the back were a bit
indistinct.  The podium was in the center of the frame and the slightly
fisheye effect of the camera's lens made it look like it loomed over both the
audience and the supervisors.

Chip figured that he had plenty of time to watch this over and over again and
so for now he fast forwarded to the money shot.  He saw when Don Mockson's
associates stood up from their chairs and began chanting.  He could watch the
blood come into Buck Lemaire's face and finally, he could watch Buck jump from
his chair and Don fall to the floor with the shape of his body slightly
distorted by the camera optics.  

Mostly, everything he saw was as he remembered.  He was surprised at the way
that his mental movie matched up with the movie playing on his screen.  The
outsized perspective of the camera was different than the outsized perspective
that his recollection placed on the incident, but distortions aside, he was
pleased to find out that he wasn't as far off as he had feared.

The strange coincidence that Allison had pointed out between Buck's shout and
Don's descent was apparent even though there was no soundtrack.  It was clear
from the movements of his mouth when he was shouting and Chip used the slider
to go back and forth over the two moments.  In the video version of events,
Buck's eruption actually occurred slightly before Don began to fall to the
ground.  Chip could see how Allison might have been confused because Don's
shock sequed smoothly into the motion of falling backwards so that it looked
like he starting falling as soon as Buck shouted.  After reviewing the frames
over and over, Chip decided that Don had been first surprised and then a split
second later had begun to fall to the ground.  Using the listed frame rate of
the video camera system, Chip was actually able to quantify how long the split
second between those two events was.

Chip began to search the video for evidence that Don Mockson had not had a
stroke.  Of course, you couldn't see a stroke with a camera, but the thought
of Don's blood vessels reminded Chip of a piece of technology that had
appeared in an old video game system.  Using an ordinary CCD video camera like
one would find in a computer for videoconferencing, there was enough color
detail to actually discern the subtle variations in shade that resulted from a
person's pulse.  Video game developers had used this sensor to develop
personally tailored experiences that kept people at a peak level of excitement
without desensitizing them.  Chip wondered if the same idea could work on this
surveillance video footage.  The individual faces were quite a bit smaller
than they would be on a webcam, but the resolution of the camera system was
better, so maybe the idea had a chance of working.

The code for the video game system was still a tightly held secret, even
though one hadn't sold at retail for years, but with some digging, Chip came
up with the proof of concept code that was originally published in the
scientific literature.  It turned out to be relatively simple to go to the
author's website and download the code.  It was in an older variant of a
programming language, but Chip was eventually able to reconstruct the software
necessary to process the video files.  With some more effort, he extracted the
individual frames from the surveillance video and cropped out just the part
showing Don Mockson's face.  Feeding those images into his jury-rigged pulse
recognition software, he was surprised when it worked the first time.

The program output luridly colored versions of the video frames using
colormaps that were chosen to highlight the minute differences in shades of
pink that were hints at the blood flowing underneath a person's skin.  In
addition to the false color images, there was also a simple number, 65 beats
per minute.  Don Mockson had been as cool as a cucumber in the moment before
he died.
