---
layout: post
title: Chapter 11
---

Chip Hardwick hadn't had many opportunities to set foot inside the Fredrickton
police department.  The geeky recluse in high school doesn't go to many beer
parties or shoplift more than a little, so when he arrived at the station, he
didn't even know which door to go through.  In many small towns, the police,
the county sheriff, and the jail all shared the same building, often known as
the Justice Center.  Chip thought the name was a bit high-minded since there
wasn't much empirical evidence that justice was centered there, but there
wasn't a complaints box so he kept his thoughts to himself.  He did end up in
the jail by accident with not even a friendly receptionist to inform him that
he didn't belong there yet.  Instead, a metallic voice came over a loudspeaker
asking what business he had.  He didn't have any and didn't see any visible
microphones, so he didn't even apologize as he backed sheepishly out the door
he had just come in.

The next door he tried did offer a barely human response when he asked to be
directed to the police.  The receptionist just inclined her head to the right
and nodded.  Chip turned to the right and walked into a nondescript office
full of cubicles and filing cabinets, much like those he knew so well from a
startup.  Apparently government workers had to deal with the same cheap
institutional furniture that was procured for them as did technology workers.
Only one of the desks was occupied so Chip veered down the aisle towards that
desk.

The man behind the desk had a tight, navy blue wool shirt on that probably
looked very authoritarian when it had emerged from its hanger that morning.
Since then, the dietary rigors of police work had taken their toll on it, both
in the form of stains going down the front, and also in the form of the
relentlessly stretching paunch that threatened the bottom-most buttons.  The
brass name tag on the man's chest was still shiny and read "Parsons", so Chip
tried out a "Mr. Parsons..."

The man's head shot up from the tablet he had been reading from in both
surprise and frustration.  Maybe it wasn't common for people to just waltz in
to talk to a police officer.  Confronted with such an intruder, Parsons seemed
to be considering jumping out of his chair and marching Chip right over to the
jail side of the building, but he remained seated, although he did tug on
the bottom of his shirt in an attempt to look more authoritarian.

"It's Detective Parsons to you."

"I'm sorry, sir."  He seemed to be gratified with the use of the word "sir"
and relaxed his abdomen slightly back towards it original extent.  "I was told
that this would be the place to get more information about the death at last
night's Board meeting."

"What more information did you have in mind?  An old man gets riled up and has
a stroke.  What's left to find out?"

"Well, like why did he have the stroke then?  He wasn't that angry, he was
just making a speech and ..."

"Public speaking can be very stressful.  And why do you feel the need to
complicate things for me and for you?  There is a perfectly logical
explanation for what happened that fits the available evidence, that is,
unless you have some evidence that I don't."  Parsons looked archly down his
nose at Chip which was complicated because he was still sitting down, but
he managed to convey his essential skepticism about Chip's character and
reliability as a citizen with the glance.

"No, I mean, no, sir.  I mean, Buck Lemaire was there yelling too, he could
have had something to do with it."  The suggestion sounded lame even as he
said it out loud, but he wanted to offer something to show that he had at
least thought about this before."

"Lemaire didn't even touch the guy.  Could have stomped the shit out of the
old man, he could have, but he didn't do anything but yell at him.  No,
Lemaire's keeping his nose clean because he doesn't want to jeopardize his
sweet gig with the mining company.  He's been their golden boy for getting
these permits passed and he doesn't want them to think or know any different
about him."

"When has Lemaire gotten his nose dirty in the past?  Is there something that
he might want them not to know? Could he have killed Mockson to keep him
quiet?"

"Whoa there tiger.  I think you've seen a few too many police dramas.  There
isn't any real secret about Lemaire if they cared to look.  Besides, like we
both agreed already, he didn't touch the guy.  You'd know that better than
anyone wouldn't you?"  So Parsons had figured out who Chip was.  Maybe he had
even been one of the officers who interviewed him last night.  Given his
emotional state, Chip probably couldn't have identified John Lennon if he had
been one of the paramedics.  Now that Parsons was onto him, Chip didn't have
the will to keep pushing for more information when Parsons could always just
tell him that he should already know what went on there.

"Thank you very much, sir," Chip offered as he excused himself, backing down
the alley between the desks as if not wanting to turn his back on a wild
animal.  Detective Parsons watched him go until he was about to turn the
corner at the recptionist and then blew a snort of disgust and turned back to
his paperless paperwork.
