---
layout: post
title: Chapter 7
---

The morning light streamed freely through the tall windows of Chip's loft
because the curtains he had bought at the thrift store yesterday were lying in
the trunk of his car where they weren't blocking out much of anything.  Waking
with the bright light, Chip remembered the most intense dream about a
honest-to-goodness debate, chanted slogans, and an unexpected death.  When he
noticed that he was in bed wearing the same clothes that he had worn last night, he
groaned with the realization that truth was oftentimes stranger than dreams
if not fiction.

As he stumbled through his normally automatic morning coffee ritual, he
thought lots about the recent past, but he also thought about the near future.
What exactly does one do the day after witnessing a death?  What happens to
the political process when someone drops dead while participating?  As the
caffeine began to soak in, Chip began to calm down.  Like usual, speculating
on the near future was futile and he decided he could wait fifteen minutes to
find out what he was going to do after he finished breakfast.

What he discovered was that he was going to do something very normal and check
his text and his voice messages.  He had a surprising number of messages from near
strangers.  Allison had written an email with a few follow-up questions. Some
of his high school acquaintances had seen him at the front of the room and
most of those had heard his pithy expletive-laden commentary on the situation
and their emails expressed all manner of reactions, from jocularity to high
dudgeon.  Chip wasn't in much of a mood to strike up some old friendships so
he just archived every one of them figuring that if any of those people were
worth getting to know again, then they would try again to reach him.

The voice messages were fewer and from more familiar people, but were more
interesting as a result.  One was from Lurlene who had left with the first
wave of guilty, lucky cowards and wanted to make sure that Chip had made it
home and was feeling okay.  The second message was from Ellen Suffolk thanking
him for all of his efforts and wanting to know where to send him a check.

Tackling these in decreasing order of triviality, he began with a call back to
Ellen.  He figured that if he left a voice message, he could just give her the
address and be done with it.  Instead, she answered the phone right away and
asked him if he could come over right away.  While he did feel a certain
urgency about getting paid, he didn't think that she shared the same hurry, so
he wondered why she wanted him to come quickly.  She didn't seem in the mood
to answer more questions, so Chip figured he would know soon enough if he just
got in the car.

As he drove up Sand Hill Road without any technological assistance this time,
he was able to take in more of the structure of the place.  The steep
limestone bluffs on either side of the road were peppered with small seeps of
water coming from the rock faces.  As he rounded a curve, he had to swerve to
the outside to avoid a knot of safety orange pickup trucks parked not
completely off to one side.  They didn't look like Iowa DOT trucks but they
were definitely doing road work-type things by the side of the road.  All he
could see in his rearview mirror were some large tripods and Pelican cases of
electronic instruments.  No shovel leaning for that crowd.

He missed the driveway from gawking too much and it took him a little while to
realize what had happened until his mental GPS chimed in that he should be
"recalculcating" and he pulled a U-turn in the middle of the narrow gravel
road.  Continuing on up the driveway along the face of the steep bluff, Chip
thought again of the strange tone of Ellen's voice when he returned her call.
He understood that losing valuable computer files could take its emotional
toll, but she sounded a bit over the moon about it.

When he got to the door, she called for him to "Come in" and he entered the
cluttered entryway that houses in this climate demand.  Stepping over boots
and numerous hemi-mitten pairs, Chip stepped into the warm kitchen and got his
first glimpse at the look of grief on Ellen's face.  Having experienced a
serious helping of grief in the past 12 hours, Chip assumed that Ellen's had
the same source as his.  She probably knew Don Mockson and had heard about his
death.  That explained her edgy emotional state on the phone.  It didn't
explain why she had asked him to come over.  They had a fine client/provider
relationship, but he didn't see himself as the first best choice of a shoulder
to cry on.

"I'm so sorry for your loss" he choked out, sure that phrase had been used on
numerous TV dramas.

"Thank you.  It's been with me so long.  It meant so much to me.  And now it's
gone."

Referring to the deceased as "it" seemed like a strange mental breakdown to
have, but the human mind is endlessly unpredictable in moments of stress.  He
continued to try to commiserate, "How did you find out?"

"This morning, I just went down to the basement and they were all gone."

"Wait, who was gone?"

"Nobody was gone.  My videos were gone, all of my footage.  Fifteen years of
work.  Gone." With this she put her head down into her hands and began to
shake it rhythmically back and forth for some individual source of comfort.

Chip felt like an idiot for projecting his own emotional state of being onto
her and took his time allowing what she had actually said to blow away the
remaining shreds of his inaccurate surmise.  Eventually, she composed herself
around the same time that Chip cleaned out the invalid assumptions from his
mental cache of the state of the universe.

"I'm sorry for going all to pieces on you.  I feel terrible that someone could
come in here and just make my stuff vanish into thin air.  It's like not
knowing if the chair will hold you up the next time you sit down."

Chip didn't think that the Pauli exclusion principle had been shaken to its
foundations, but didn't want to deliver the necessary physics lectures to make
that into a reassuring sentiment.  He opted instead for a medium hum that he
hoped sounded comforting.

"Can we go downstairs?" He didn't know why he wanted to see, but you don't
make it in eleven consecutive jobs without job descriptions without being
naturally a bit curious.

Ellen nodded a bit numbly and led the way down the basement stairs.  At first
glance, everything looked exactly as it did yesterday afternoon.  The large
monitors, the clean desk top with the winking USB drive enclosure, the museum
collection of physical video interchange formats.  Proceeding in chronological
order, it was only until the very end that Chip saw what had shaken Ellen so
much: everything after the DVDs was gone.  The neat row of external hard
drives was missing.  The last few jewel cases on what was now the end of the
row had toppled over without their support, the newly discovered need for a
bookend a subtly poignant reminder of what had been lost.

"Why would someone do this? What was on those disks?"  Chip asked a bit too
bluntly.

"Search me.  I've been taping around this area for years now, on hikes and
along roadsides whenever something catches my eye.  I've tried to edit some of
them together into films that can stand on their own, but they lack drama.
There's no documentary force in footage of moving specks that I know are
birds.  I've got all kinds of big lenses, but they just mean I can record bird
specks from even farther away."

Chip nodded absently as he tried to take in the entire scene, hoping that
something would pop out to him like unfocusing your eyes when doing a word
search, but that hadn't worked when he was getting Highlights magazine and it
didn't seem to work now.  The whole situation made no more sense at wide angle
than it did on zoom.

To give himself some space to think, Chip assumed his default position in the
swivel chair in front of the computer.  For someone who had offloaded so much
of his thinking into various computer systems over the years, it was reflexive
to sit at a keyboard when there was some serious thinking to be done.  It
didn't even matter that in this case the keyboard was connected to a computer
that was basically off for all practical purposes.  He even put his fingers
onto the keys of the home row as he stared into space trying to put something,
anything, together from the events of the past two days.  Super strong
crypto-viruses, fatal committee meetings, missing hard drives, it all made not
the slightest shred of sense.  Chip was as out of his depth here as he had
been back in Portland after getting laid off at home and at work.  Venting his
frustration at not receiving any signs that made any sense, Chip pushed the
keyboard back on the desk until it bumped up against the disk drive that sat
in front of the big monitors.

The disk drive that sat there with its little blinking red light.  Wait, why
would that light be blinking?  Most drives like this blinked their lights only
when there was a read or write operation happening on the drive.  But, as far
as Chip knew, this computer wasn't doing anything at all.  It should just be
sitting idle waiting for him to win the exponentially large lottery and guess
the right password to unlock the virus-trapped files.  But it wasn't sitting
idle.  Some process was reading steadily from that drive.  Chip hadn't pressed
any keys or even moved the mouse very much, but something was definitely
happening without his involvement.

If he hadn't started anything happening, then perhaps someone else had.  With
an exaltation of "A-ha!" Chip dived under the desk to look behind the
computer.  Ellen looked very confused at his behavior from the point where he
appropriated the computer chair and then leapt out of it, but she kept quiet
and watched as Chip turned the tower case so that its back panel was visible
in the knee well under the desk.

Sure enough, Chip saw what he had expected.  This computer was actually
plugged in to a network cable, rather than relying on any wireless networking.
And next to the plug on the back of the computer were two lights that blinked
when there was activity on the network and those lights were blinking a
steady tattoo of input and output over the network cable.  Chip popped his
head back up and blurted his next question "Where do you get your internet
from out here?"

This question may seem odd to people who live in the civilized world where the
pavements beneath their feet are underlaid with significant amounts of copper
and glass that make bits and bytes appear wherever they want in their
buildings.  Out here, that is not the case.  Even the power lines are
noticeable in this country, extending in long rows of brown posts with short
branches off to each homestead.  Most people who lived in the country still
had zero or one choices for broadband internet.  There was slow, laggy
satellite internet service or there was cellular internet service if you were
lucky enough to be able to see a cell tower.  Given how slow the data on his
phone had come down when he was trying to find this place, it wasn't likely
that there was 4G or 5G cellular service here, so that probably meant a
satellite dish outside on the south side of the house receiving signals from
space and sending them back, but sending them back much more slowly.

"They put up a dish when I moved in and it still does what I need it to.  It
doesn't work during rainstorms, but I can watch my grandkids in their school
plays the next day."

"Someone or something is accessing the network from this PC.  We both assumed
that it was completely dormant since we couldn't see anything on our end, but
as soon as you have a network connection, a computer can be set up as a server
and controlled remotely from the internet."

Ellen looked a bit surprised that her mild mannered computer that usually did
her bidding could suddenly become a remote tool in the control of someone
else.  "Can we figure out what they're doing?"

"We can try," and Chip started pulling bits and pieces out of the myriad
pockets in his jacket.  His first thought was to plug his laptop into the same
network and try to capture the traffic going by.  When he followed the network
cable from the computer back to its other end however, he found that the
satellite modem had only a single network port on the back so there was no
other place to plug in laptop.  He tried to look for a wireless connection
that might get him into the same place, but apparently Ellen had lived in the
house long enough that wireless networking wasn't standard issue on these
networking devices.

Chip wasn't stymied for long as he dug deep into a pocket under his forearm
and came up with a device that looked like a four-pointed throwing star. Ellen
was briefly concerned that this had escalated very quickly to esoteric
oriental weapons, but Chip turned back to the network cable and she noticed
that each of the four points had a plug on it that accepted the same kind of
cord that already ran into the back of her computer.

Noticing her quizzical look, Chip tried to explain "It's a network tap.  You
insert it into the middle of one of these cables and the other two points on
the throwing star let you siphon off all of the data that's flowing on the
cable."

When he had all of pieces ready, he deftly unplugged one end of the network
cable and inserted it into the star tap then plugged one end of a new cable
that he had found in a cardboard box labeled with the satellite internet
provider's logo back into the modem.  The network protocols were resilient to
quick interruptions of service like this, but Chip checked the blinking lights
on the computer and hard drive to make sure that whatever had been happening
was still happening.  Then, he plugged his laptop through an adapter into the
side ports on the tap.  Opening the lid, he opened an application and Ellen
could see colored lines begin to scroll down the screen.

Mostly to himself, Chip muttered, "Well, what do we have here?  Encrypted VPN
traffic?  What cipher? Uh huh, that's what I thought" and with a smug gotcha
type of grin, Chip thumbed a key combination and set the laptop carefully down
to not disturb the mass of cables running in and out of it.

"I'm capturing the network traffic now.  Whoever is getting into your computer
tried to hide the contents of that traffic by encrypting it.  Unfortunately
for them and fortunately for us, they chose to use an outdated encryption
scheme called PPTP which can be cracked.  I'll just leave this running for a
while to get enough traffic to make it worthwhile and then I'll send it off
for cracking."

"I don't want to ask, but who do you send traffic to for cracking?" Ellen
struggled to use the familiar words in their new context.

"Security companies have purpose-built hardware for breaking encryption.  The
most open cmpanies will allow you to send them data and will send it back
unencrypted for a small fee.  I'll use one of these sources to be able to look
inside to see exactly what is going on between this computer and the outside
world over your satellite internet connection."

"Shouldn't we just unplug it?"

"Not if we want to know who our hacker is.  If we just shut down the computer
or unplug it from the network, not only will we lose any connection we have to
the perpetrators, we will also lose any chance however slim of getting the
data on this computer back."

His mention of lost data caused both of them to look over their shoulders at
the empty shelf space where the rest of Ellen's data would normally be.  It
seemed unlikely that a computer virus would be connected to a meatspace
burglary, but it also seemed beyond unlikely that one old lady in Iowa would
suffer two completely distinct forms of data loss in such rapid succession.
Maybe if he could crack the code on the stubbornly unresponsive desktop
computer then he could get some insight into the rest of the inscrutable
puzzle he had stumbled into over the past day.

Chip stopped the network capture program and unplugged his laptop but left the
network tap in place. "I'll be back tomorrow with another small computer that
we can leave in place on this network link to capture all the conversations
between your computer and the outside world."

Ellen thanked him for his help and seemed a little more steady now that
something was happening on at least one of the fronts in her own personal war
on data.  When Chip got back in his car, he checked to see what all of the
buzzing signified that he had missed while he was deeply focused on what
could loosely be termed his work.  There were follow-up messages from Lurlene
and Allison, both of whom wished he would be a bit more prompt in his return
communications in the future, and there was also a message from the
Fredrickton Police Department to please call them back at his earliest
convenience.  After what had happened last night, Chip was sure that his
earliest convenience was going to be a long time coming.
