---
layout: post
title: Chapter 15
---

When Chip got back home, his mind turned to Don Mockson again, just like it
had yesterday.  He couldn't stop wondering about the circumstances of his
death.  For some reason, he didn't feel like the man who had landed on his
shoes had gotten there purely by accident.  His mind just couldn't accept the
possibility that a healthy, erudite individual could be reduced to that in
such a short and natural order.

Recognizing that his memory of the events of that night might have been skewed
by the level of emotional trauma that he had suffered, he thought that his
first order of business today should be establishing some outside
corroboration for what he had seen.

Besides Lurlene, there was only one person at the meeting who he had said more
than one word to in the past decade, the report Allison.  Besides the fact
that he figured he would enjoy any decent excuse to talk to her again, the
fact that she was a reporter probably meant that she would have a better, more
consistent sense of what happened than anyone else.  Pulling out his phone, he
sent out a multi-call to her contact information, inviting either a voice
call, a video call, or a text conversation.  She responded by text message
that she was on the phone with someone else right now and would call him back
soon.

"Soon" was soon enough that even though he had planned on surfing the web
aimlessly until she called, he hadn't even managed to get sidetracked from the
first thing he had looked up, the Wikipedia article on "community rights".
When the phone rang he answered it and got himself settled for a detailed
rehashing of the events of only two nights ago.

"Let's go for a walk," Allison began.

"In Iowa, in November?  If we're going to have this conversation in meatspace,
then why don't we at least do it somewhere indoors?"

"I'll tell you why while we walk.  Meet me in 15 minutes at the prairie
reserve on the south side of town."  She hung up without any further
discussion of her suggestion.

Chip didn't know anything about a prairie preserve in this town.  When he had
still lived here, nobody cared very much about the prairie, except and
something that had been on the ground long ago for their immigrant ancestors
to walk through on their way here.  He always thought of prairie as a
historical artifact from the time of covered wagons, but he didn't want to
seem like an idiot for having to call back and ask where that was.  Searching
for "prairie park" got him directions to what looked like a completely blank
area on the map, near a place where the river bent.  

He indulged himself by following the search results down the rabbit hole of
articles from the days when the prairie park was built.  Apparently prairies
still existed, even in the modern post-wagon world.  Someone had proposed
restoring vacant land in the floodplain of the river into the state that it
might have had 200 years ago, and the board of supervisors had gone for it 5
years ago.  Judging by the articles and discussions online from that time
period, it had been heralded as a "jewel of the region" and an "ecological
triumph" which sounded like good things to put on a poster if parks had
posters like movies did: "Two thumbs up for the walking trails!"

Chip's indulgence of his brain's curiosity was going to make him late so he
grabbed his laptop and coat and ran out the door.  When he got to the gravel
parking lot with its freshly painted signage, courtesy of the chamber of
commerce, he found Allison already arrived and sitting on a peaceful bench,
also courtesy of the chamber of commerce.  Rather than adopting the peaceful
posture of her environment, Allison seemed quite tense.  As she sat, she kept
turning her head in broad circles like she was trying to scan for marauding
bears.

"I don't think you have to worry about any bears, Allison.  All of the
predators that survive here are the two-legged type."

She gave a weak smile and stood from the bench, tugging Chip's arm to hurry
him along.

"What is this all about?  Are we on some kind of secret mission?"

"Just relax, look cool and I promise I will tell you soon what is going on."

Chip nodded just a small nod and then tried to focus on the tall, waving grass
stems that stuck up 5 or 6 feet above the ground.  Shooting a few more glances
over her shoulder, Chip couldn't stand it anynore.

"Are you going to tell me why you think the aliens are trying to probe you
now?

"This isn't very funny."

"What isn't?  You still haven't told me what is so unfunny that we have to
come outside in the wind and cold instead of being civilized and meeting at
the coffee shop in town."

"Okay, here goes.  My notebook was stolen."

"Wait, what? That's why we have to walk around outside?  Because you lost a
notebook."

"I didn't say that I lost it.  I said that it was stolen."

