---
layout: post
title: Chapter 13
---

It was strangely early when Chip woke up the next morning without any help
from an alarm.  Programmers weren't know for being dawn worshipers and Chip
was no exception.  He liked to get his solid eight hours each night, but he
much preferred to start them at least after midnight and preferably not end
them too much before 10 a.m.  As he lay wide awake on his mattress, Chip
vaguely recalled that he had been dreaming before he woke up.  he wasn't one
of those people who solved his problems in his dreams, so he didn't try too
hard to remember what it was that he had been dreaming of, but he did have a
clear visual image of himself wearing a fedora hat.  This wasn't anything that
he had ever tried as an actual fashion choice, but it had a certain
hard-boiled 1920s appeal and he rolled over to grab his phone to check on a
few online stores to see what it would take to get a good fedora.  Like any
good geek, he had to do his research before buying, so he wasn't ready to
1-click anything yet, but he did get some ideas of the various categories and
price ranges that he should be thinking about.

Casting aside his hat quest for a trip to the tiled bathroom, which was the
only walled space in the entire loft, he figured when he had finished there
that he may as well get on with his day.  Washing one bowl from the sink, he
poured himself a bowl of cereal and munched it in a still-surprised daze of
early morning wakefulness.  He decided to supplement his cheery disposition
with a small helping of social interaction so he shrugged on his jacket full
of gadgets and went off down the main street, which was not called Main
Street, that was two blocks over, but the primary thoroughfare was called
Division Street, but it didn't seem to divide much except the two sidewalks.
He even sauntered a bit as he walked down Division to the coffee shop.

As he turned and grabbed the bell-hung door, he caught sight of Lurlene in the
salon across the street shampooing the hair of an older woman and giving a
command performance of hanging on her every gossipy word.  She must not have
been too engaged really, because she was able to spot Chip across the street
and give him another one of her confusing winks.  She couldn't wave with her
hands wrist-deep in the suds, but Chip would have preferred it if she would
have just nodded.  The nod is a clarifying gesture, asserting an affirmative
greeting, while the wink is furtive and sneaky and where Lurlene was
concerned, Chip's inner child was still suspicious that if she was being
sneaky, then he would likely be on the receiving end.

When all of them had been in elementary school together, Lurlene and Buck and
Chip and everyone else born in the same year at the small hospital in town all
went to the same school because there was only one in town.  They managed to
get enough students for two classes when they were in the first grade and Chip
had felt as if he had a year to live without social stigma since Buck and
Lurlene were holding court in the other class, which left Chip relatively
unmolested since there wasn't anyone left in his class to impress, so the
knock-on bullying that came from people who wanted to climb the social ladder
was absent for the year.  In second grade however, there was a rude awakening
when the two classes were merged into one after some families had moved out of
the district.  Anxious to reassert their social dominance, Buck and Lurlene
had redoubled their effort to enforce the pecking order.  If Buck had been a
chicken, he would have lost all of the feathers on his head from all the
pecking that came down on him that year.

Shaking the strange trip down memory lane from his consciousness, Chip managed
a small wave to Lurlene before he rang the bells opening the front door of the
coffee shop.  Chip was halfway through his first Americano when he saw Lurlene
almost jogging across the street, bouncing in her haircutting smock as she
came.

"Howdy pardner," she greeted him with her drawl swinging over towards Oklahoma
this morning.

"And a howdy back to you, I guess.  Did you come over to get some coffee?"

"Oh, yeah, I needed something to get me going this morning.  I was up late
playing bunco with my aunts and I'm not as young as we used to be anymore.
Did you have an exciting night up there in your penthouse?"

"It's called a loft and I had a very productive evening if I do say so
myself."

"Have you produced a clue as to what you are going to do with your life now
that you live here?"

Chip reflected that he hadn't produced many clues at all, except the sketchy
information he had gleaned about Buck's assumption that he should be free to
use company tools whenever he wanted.  He figured Lurlene would know plenty
more of the juicy details of that case, so he asked, "Did Buck ever get into
any kind of trouble when you two, uh, dated back in high school?"

"Buck Lemaire?  No, he was sort of a sweetheart back then.  I mean he'd mix it
up with some other boy to let off some steam, but he didn't ever get in
trouble for it."

"So he didn't ever lose his temper?  Get upset with what someone was saying
and haul off and hit them?"

"Buck has always had a bit of a short fuse, but he wasn't actually the type to
just up and punch someone.  No, Buck would plot someone's demise carefully,
putting together the pieces until they just walked into his trap.  Remember
the time that Jimmy Flowers's pants fell down in the lunch room and everyone
saw the purple heart boxers that Joann had given him?  That was Buck.  He'd
work on the button on Jimmy's jeans every day in the locker room before PE.
Eventually, the thread was so frayed that they couldn't stand it any more and
his baggy jeans took a trip down to see his ankles.

"I can't even remember what it was that Jimmy did to get in Buck's way.  He
did always expect to have things his way."

Lurlene made a sour face as if the topic was causing her some uncomfortable
cognitive dissonance and she tried to shake it off before it penetrated her
simplistic view of the past.
