---
layout: post
title: Chapter 18
---

Chip tagged meekly along behind Lurlene as she walked down the stairs from the
loft and out onto the street.  She looked practically demure now with her down
coat, leggings and stiletto heels.  Chip worried about the health of her
ankles at such a great height, but Lurlene was even outpacing him at this
point.  He picked up the pace so that he could at least talk to her over her
shoulder.

"Do you want me to drive?"

Lurlene laughed, "Of course not, sugar.  Why should we ride in your elctro-box
when my car is much more fun?"

Chip realized that he had no idea what sort of car Lurlene drove, but he was
sure that he was going to be in for some kind of surprise.  Lurlene's
aesthetic was such a mishmash of 1940s glam with solid 2020 design purity that
he had no idea what her ideal choice of automobile would be.  She had cracked
wise at his efficiency oriented electric, so he was expecting something purely
internal combustion, but even then he wasn't prepared for what he was sitting
in at her invitation.

She drove a 1968 Ford Mustang drag racer.  It looked like she had won the pink
slip off some guy the previous weekend.  It shone and gleamed with a bright
red paint job that was a disturbingly close match to the color of her nail
polish.  Chip was well aware that he was out of his league in more ways than
one so he just slipped into the form fitting racing seat and tried to buckle
his seat belt.  After she let him fumble around for an embarassing number of
seconds, Lurlene reached over and deftly snapped the five-point restraint into
place over his shoulders, around his waist and between his legs.  She gave him
a little pat on the upper thigh when she had clicked him in and winked at him.

When she turned the key, it put an end to the conversational possibilities of
the ride.  Chip had wanted to ask her about Rhonda and what she knew 
about her friendship with Don Mockson, but the sound of the V-8 engine made
that impossible.  In an era of constant fret and worry about pollution and
carbon emissions, a ride in a car like this was like a giant fuck you to the
cilmate-industrial complex.  A car that ran on what felt like so many small
explosions felt as quaint and unusual as an Amish horse and buggy on the road.
Granted, horse and buggies were increasingly popular with the steampunk
hipster set and they might have significantly lower carbon emissions than this
monstrosity, but the stares they attracted from bystanders were much less
aghast than when they roared down Main Street on their way to the other side
of town.

Rhonda Richards lived in a small three story apartment building on the garden
level, whose only relation to the garden is that that level of the building is
actually set down into the ground as some parts of a garden might be.  When
she answered Lurlene's knock, she seemed genuinely happy to see her, but her
face hardened when she saw Chip over Lurlene's shoulder.

"Who's he?" she quizzed Lurlene.

"This is my old friend Chip.  He wants to ask you some questions.  Don't
worry, he's harmless."

They breezed through the door into a dimly lit space hung with tapestries on
the walls.  Rhonda invited them to sit on some cushions on the floor and asked
them if they would like some herbal tea.  Both Lurlene and Chip declined and
Rhonda sank pliably down onto a round meditation cushion facing the other two.

Chip wasn't sure if the trapping of Rhonda's hippie existence were entirely
earnest or if there was a subtle hint of self-mocking that had become quite
popular in the last few years.  Thick glasses and skinny jeans may have
launched the hipsters, but they found their most fertile expression when they
infiltrated the authentic lives of other groups of people and inflected those
same lifestyles with a pervasive irony.  From his dim glances at the
surroundings, it could have gone either way with Rhonda.  She could be a true
believer or a post-modern fraud, but if she was good at either one, he
wouldn't ever be able to detect a difference.  Without pigeon-holing her right
off the bat, he did have a first question prepared.

"What were you guys doing to do next?" was perhaps not as well phrased as he
could have hoped, but judging by the startled look on her face, he figured he
had been sufficiently incisive.

"Next after what?" she asked somewhat ingenuously.

"After you were chanting, what came next?  I mean, what if Don Mockson hadn't
died and then you and I would never meet in person, but if he hadn't, you
know, uh, if not, then what?"

"Then we were going to move to submit a community rights ordinance."

"Why not just do it right off the bat?  Why chant so much first?"

"What are you trying to imply?  That our choice to generate some energy and
awareness is what killed Don?"  She obviously had been thinking this very
thing quite a lot over the past few days and the way she phrased the
formulation showed where her mind had settled on the issue.

"No, that wasn't what I was trying to say.  I mean, you don't know this yet,
but, uh, Don didn't die because of your little stunt."

"How can you know that?"  She looked relieved and almost horrified by how much
she wanted to believe the word of a complete stranger on this point.
"Everyone is saying that he died because he got so excited."

"I know everyone is saying it.  They've been saying it to me too.  But do you
believe them?"

She cast her eyes down with a mixture of shame for how she had been beating
herself up and doubt that what she had known before had somehow become
irrelevant.  "Don wasn't the excitable type.  I think it came from his time in
the anti-nuke campaigns.  He was always the one sitting on top of the missile
silo when the cops came for him.  Or maybe from before that.  He was a Vietnam
vet you know.  Nobody wants to hear from an anti-war vet when he gets back,
but Don had been through plenty before he ever got into activism.  Chanting at
a board meeting hardly even registered on his radar as something exciting."

Chip was pleased to hear the confluence between Mrs. Mockson's evaluation of
her husband and the results of his snooping and what Rhonda was reporting.  He
didn't want to reveal too much about his methods, but he felt like he owed her
a justification for his claims.

"I, uh, made use of some city government websites and, uh, analyzed some, uh,
video from the night of the meeting."

Lurlene's eyes narrowed as he said this, leaving Chip to feel again like she
was onto all of his evasions, no matter if she said anything about them or
not.  Rhonda began to look more elated that Chip's suggestion of her own
exoneration was based on something approaching real evidence.

"I ran the video through a, uh, program that can tell a person's pulse rate
from what a video camera sees.  Don Mockson's pulse rate was completely normal
right up until the moment that he died.  If he had been excited by what was
going on, it should have been much higher than it was.  It should have been
climbing over the course of his speech, but it wasn't.  The chanting and the
shouting didn't have anything to do with the death of Don Mockson."

He stated it much more confidently than he felt, but his confidence seemed to
help Rhonda a great deal.  She brightened and uncurled a little from the
grief-stricken slouch she had been holding herself into.  She began to babble
a little bit from the emotional release.

"Oh, thank god, yes, that's what I thought, I mean, I knew it.  It just came
out of nowhere, it wasn't caused by anything, it was just dumb luck.  Right?"

Chip knew that the terminal interrogative was probably just a verbal tick
caused by emotional stress, but he figured that if he was coming clean with
this stranger on what he knew, he didn't want to deceive her further but in a
different direction.

"Not necessarily."

Rhonda cringed back a little towards her protective slouch and Lurlene threw a
glare at Chip that could have blistered the paint on her hot rod.

"When I went to see Don's body at the morgue, there was a mark on his chest.
I don't know what caused it, but it could have been caused by the same thing
that caused his aneurysm."

Lurlene again narrowed her eyes, this time in surprise that Chip had gone so
far as to go see the dead man's body.  Rhonda looked like she was going to be
beside herself again.

"But why would someone kill Don?"

"I don't know.  That's why I wanted to know what was going to happen next.
Maybe someone thought that Don was going to do something that had to be
stopped."

"That's crazy.  How can proposing a new ordinance be a reason to kill a man?"

"I guess it depends on what is in the ordinance.  What were you going to be
proposing?"

"It was a proposed ban on frac sand mining in the county."

"Well, it seems like there would be one person who would have a reason to want
to stop that from happening."

"Corporations aren't people," Rhonda corrected him reflexively, but it threw
Chip off his train of thought enough that he had to ask what she meant.

"I meant that corporations aren't people.  You said that the mining company
would be a person who wanted our ordinance to be stopped.  But corporations
aren't people, no matter how much lawyers and judges want to pretend that they
are."

"Why would someone pretend that a corporation was a person?"  Chip asked,
even though he had just done the very thing.

"Because people have rights.  Governments can recognize and act to protect
those rights, but the rights come from the people themselves."

"So you mean that the Constitution doesn't create the right to free speech?"

"No, you have that right as a human being.  The First Amendment to the
Constitution protects your right from infringement by the federal government.
And the First Amendment is a great example of why corporations want to be
considered as people too.  If a corporation had a right to free speech, then
they would also have a right to run political advertisements or support
candidates for office.  They would even have a right to _not_ speak, so
government couldn't compel them to disclose nutritional information if they
didn't want to."

"But why would anyone think that a corporation was a person?"

"Because it got them what they wanted: rights."

Chip was a bit surprised that someone could speak the presence of a colon so
clearly, but he figured that Rhonda had delivered this speech a number of
times.  He had to shake his head a little bit to clear the proliferating
thoughts of what the implications of corporate non-personhood might be.
Refocusing, he asked "Is that what your ordinance was about?"

"Not in so many words.  The ordinance just claimed that we as citizens have a
right to a healthy natural environment and that frac sand mining infringes on
that right."

"That doesn't seem so controversial."

Rhonda gave him a pitying stare as she realized she need to take him back to
the beginning of the whole issue.

"What were we chanting?"

"'Commerce clause has got to go.'"

"Very good.  And why were we chanting that?"

"Because it got people excited?"

"Yes. And also because the Commerce Clause prevents communities like ours from
making laws that protect our rights.  The Commerce Clause has been used by the
Supreme Court to claim that they are the only place where rights can be
protected.  If five justices think that you don't have a right to something,
then in this country you don't."

"So, what about that right to a healthy natural environment that sounded so
good earlier?"

"As far as the Supreme Court is concerned it doesn't exist."

"So, then it doesn't exist."

"I didn't say that.  Our ordinance makes it very clear that the right exists
and that we are protecting that right by banning frac sand mining."

"But, uh, isn't that, uh," Chip stammered, not quite ready to expose his tiny,
newly formed understanding, "uh, isn't that law illegal under the Commerce
Clause?"

"Yes, exactly!"  Rhonda seemed relieved that he had gotten to this point in
his understanding.

Chip wasn't sure what point he was at, but he had had enough re-education for
an afternoon and he tried to politely extract himself from the situation.

"Well, uh, thank you for your time, Ms. Richards."

"Rhonda, please.  It was kind of nice to meet you, Chip.  Thanks for what you
told me about Don.  You've made my heart a lot lighter."

Ever the literalist, Chip doubted that he had changed her organ's mass, but he
knew enough to nod and extend a hand.  He was surprised when she took the hand
and pulled him to his feet and gave him a completely earnest hug.

When Lurlene and he were back in the cockpit of the drag racer and Chip had
done up his own safety harness this time, he thanked her, "Thanks for bringing
me out here and introducing me to Rhonda.  She was a big help."

"A big help with what, your investigation Sherlock?"

Chip blushed at her needling and tried to explain "I'm not investigating, I
just like to know exactly how things work.  I want to get to the bottom of
things."

Lurlene batted her eyelashes playfully and chuckled, "Yes, I'm sure you do.
That must explain your skill with women."  And then she winked at him again.
