---
layout: post
title: Chapter 18
---

Chip tagged meekly along behind Lurlene as she walked down the stairs from the
loft and out onto the street.  She looked practically demure now with her down
coat, leggings and stiletto heels.  Chip worried about the health of her
ankles at such a great height, but Lurlene was even outpacing him at this
point.  He picked up the pace so that he could at least talk to her over her
shoulder.

"Do you want me to drive?"

Lurlene laughed, "Of course not, sugar.  Why should we ride in your elctro-box
when my car is much more fun?"

Chip realized that he had no idea what sort of car Lurlene drove, but he was
sure that he was going to be in for some kind of surprise.  Lurlene's
aesthetic was such a mishmash of 1940s glam with solid 2020 design purity that
he had no idea what her ideal choice of automobile would be.  She had cracked
wise at his efficiency oriented electric, so he was expecting something purely
internal combustion, but even then he wasn't prepared for what he was sitting
in at her invitation.

She drove a 1968 Ford Mustang drag racer.  It looked like she had won the pink
slip off some guy the previous weekend.  It shone and gleamed with a bright
red paint job that was a disturbingly close match to the color of her nail
polish.  Chip was well aware that he was out of his league in more ways than
one so he just slipped into the form fitting racing seat and tried to buckle
his seat belt.  After she let him fumble around for an embarassing number of
seconds, Lurlene reached over and deftly snapped the five-point restraint into
place over his shoulders, around his waist and between his legs.  She gave him
a little pat on the upper thigh when she had clicked him in and winked at him.

When she turned the key, it put an end to the conversational possibilities of
the ride.  Chip had wanted to ask her about Rhonda and what she knew 
about her friendship with Don Mockson, but the sound of the V-8 engine made
that impossible.  In an era of constant fret and worry about pollution and
carbon emissions, a ride in a car like this was like a giant fuck you to the
cilmate-industrial complex.  A car that ran on what felt like so many small
explosions felt as quaint and unusual as an Amish horse and buggy on the road.
Granted, horse and buggies were increasingly popular with the steampunk
hipster set and they might have significantly lower carbon emissions than this
monstrosity, but the stares they attracted from bystanders were much less
aghast than when they roared down Main Street on their way to the other side
of town.

Rhonda Richards lived in a small three story apartment building on the garden
level, whose only relation to the garden is that that level of the building is
actually set down into the ground as some parts of a garden might be.  When
she answered Lurlene's knock, she seemed genuinely happy to see her, but her
face hardened when she saw Chip over Lurlene's shoulder.

"Who's he?" she quizzed Lurlene.

"This is my old friend Chip.  He wants to ask you some questions.  Don't
worry, he's harmless."

They breezed through the door into a dimly lit space hung with tapestries on
the walls.  Rhonda invited them to sit on some cushions on the floor and asked
them if they would like some herbal tea.  Both Lurlene and Chip declined and
Rhonda sank pliably down onto a round meditation cushion facing the other two.

Chip wasn't sure if the trapping of Rhonda's hippie existence were entirely
earnest or if there was a subtle hint of self-mocking that had become quite
popular in the last few years.  Thick glasses and skinny jeans may have
launched the hipsters, but they found their most fertile expression when they
infiltrated the authentic lives of other groups of people and inflected those
same lifestyles with a pervasive irony.  From his dim glances at the
surroundings, it could have gone either way with Rhonda.  She could be a true
believer or a post-modern fraud, but if she was good at either one, he
wouldn't ever be able to detect a difference.  Without pigeon-holing her right
off the bat, he did have a first question prepared.

"What 
