---
layout: post
title: Chapter 21
---

Chip felt doubly marked now, once as a vector of the community rights viral
meme and now once again as the nosy geek with no good cover story for poking
around in Buck Lemaire's business.  He kept glancing furtively over his
shoulder as he walked back to his loft.  As he turned onto his own block, he
had a panicked realization that if someone was following him, then they were
going to know where he lived.    He battled back the panic with the argument
that anyone who cared to know where he lived could have easily lifted that
information from various public records containing his name and address.

Chip steeled himself to breathe deeply and evenly as he opened his front door
and went up the distressed stairway, wondering if each of the scratched boards
he stepped on was going to be the one that triggered the pipe bomb hidden by
figures from the shadowy underworld.  He made it to the top of the stairs
unscathed and tried to survey his large, open-plan living space carefully.
As a natural slob, Chip had no idea if the half-empty chip bag that he left on
the counter had been tampered with by an interloper or not.

With one more shuddery deep breath, Chip plunged into the room, figuring that
since he had no chance of detecting any signs of an intruder among the general
mess, and since he couldn't spend all of his time suspecting his trash of
having surveillance capabilities, he was just going to have to try to get on
with his life.

So, like most males of his generation, the next step in getting on with his
life was checking all of the various messaging platforms that might be used to
contact him.  Some of them could be aggregated together by various third party
tools, but some were completely walled gardens where he had to make a separate
login to check on those messages.  As a result, it was almost 25 minutes later
that Chip got around to checking the actual voice recorded messages on his
phone line.  When he saw the indication that he had a new message, Chip
immediately knew that someone at least 10 years older than he was wanted to
talk to him.  Anyone younger than that would never have had the patience to
leave a voice message and just wait for a response, but instead would have
pestered him on half a dozen other platforms until they got his immediate
attention.

The older person who had left the message was Ellen Suffolk, who had left a
somewhat breathless and cryptic message that something had changed on her
computer and could Chip please come as soon as possible.  Closing his laptop
and slipping back in his jacket pocket, Chip charged back down the stairs
without even bothering to worry about pipe bombs and walked right down to
where his car was parked.

As he drove out the back side of town and up the winding road towards Ellen
Suffolk's house, Chip reviewed what he knew of her situation and what could
have changed that made her need to call him with some urgency.  Her files were
locked up behind strong encryption by someone who was using her network
connection to stream the videos that Ellen had taken recently around her own
house.  Chip didn't know what part of that had changed, but it must have been
something noticeable, or else she wouldn't have known to call him.

Chip was firmly mulling over the possibilities as he rounded the last curve
before the turn to go up Ellen's driveway.  Just a little bit lost in thought,
Chip didn't notice the large black pickup truck coming up behind him until he
couldn't even tell that it was black because the only thing he saw in his
rearview mirror was an enormous chrome grill.  Snapping our of his reverie,
Chip flinched when he saw the shiny enormity and briefly lost his grip on the
wheel.  The washboarded dirt road began to push the car wider and wider on the
right-hand curve until he was in the opposite lane when he regained control of
the wheel.

The truck stopped short of ramming him from behind and pushing him off the
road and down the steep banks of the creek.  Rather, the truck slid by close
by on the inside of the curve, gunning the engine as he squeaked by and
spraying Chip's car with a rain of road gravel.  The windshield took a couple
of rock dings with short radiating cracks, but none of the stony missiles shot
through into the passenger compartment, although Chip cowered down on the
center console as if he was taking gunfire.

When the threatening *tick tick* of the gravel tapered off and the roar of the
truck's engine faded in the distance, Chip slowly sat up, patting his chest
and arms to verify that he was in fact intact.  Slightly stunned by his
involvement in something out of a James Bond novel (Where were his car's rocket
launchers when he needed them?), Chip climbed out of the car and stood dazed
on the sfar shoulder of the road where it was frighteningly clear just how
close his front wheel was to the edge of the roadbed where it sloped
dramatically down over short limestone cliffs into the creek below.  Chip
figured that he probably wouldn't have been killed if he had gone over the
edge, but he certainly wouldn't have been making any more cross-country,
emotionally fueled flights through the night in this car.

Chip didn't think that spy novels talked about what one should do if one
didn't get run off the road completely, so he lamely got back into the driver
seat, cranked the wheel hard to the right and continued slowly around the
curve and up the driveway to Ellen's house on the ridge.  She must have heard
him drive up, because when he came around the corner of the garage, Ellen was
waiting in the open front door beckoning him in.

As she led him down the basement stairs to the computer room, Chip noticed a
faintly acrid odor, somewhere between the hot brake smell of trucks driving
down a long steep hill and the smell of rancid cooking oil.  Since Ellen was
neither a trucker nor likely to cook with rancid oil, it seemed that the scent
must be part of the reason that she had called him.  When they got close to
the computer desk, it was even more obvious that the smell was at least half
of the reason that her tone had been so urgent on the phone.  The other half
of the reason was probably the delicate tendrils of smoke wafting from the
vents on the computer's case.

"Wow.  Tell me what happened, Ellen."

"Well, I was making a sandwich for lunch when I started to smell something
weird coming from downstairs and when I came down, I saw smoke coming out of
the computer and I panicked and called you."  She sounded remarkably calm for
someone who had just been smoke bombed by remote control in her own home, but
after the day that he had had, Chip understood that shock and surprise could
have strange emotional consequences.

Chip prised off the side cover on the computer and saw that the smoke was
coming from under the silver top panel of the hard drive's case.  

Chip whistled. "Smoked.  For real."

Ellen winced and asked "You know what this is?"

"I know what I've heard stories about.  Computer techs always tell tales about
computer hard drives that just start smoking because the spinning bearings inside
have come apart.  I didn't expect that the stories were true."  He shrugged.

Ellen pressed him "So is this something that could have just happened by
accident?"  She seemed to be grasping a bit desperately at the straw of
coincidence here, but Chip tried not to bring her down too hard all at once.

"It could have just been an accident, I guess.  But given what happened here
last week, there are some other possibilities."

"Like what, whoever took my videos and locked my computer set it to self
destruct?"

Chip shrugged again.  "Sure, it's possible.  At least theoretically."  Now
Chip got the distant gaze of the deeply technical as he considered
combinations of elaborate computer programs that could have the desired
effect.  Mumbling slightly he continued "You could use a bootloader to take
direct control of the BIOS and then write drive commands directly to the ATA
subsystem..."  He trailed off with a satisfied nod.  "Yes, you could make the
computer self destruct."

Chip could hardly hide his geekly satisfaction at having solved the particular
riddle that Ellen's computer situation posed.  Unfortunately, his satisfaction
paid no attention at all to the reality of the situation. The acrid smell of
the magic smoke that had been let out of her hard drive was the least of the
worries. That smell served only as a potent reminder that the virtual had
somehow come knocking in the dense, meaty world of devices and bodies that the
two of them were inhabiting right now. People who get hacked certainly
experience some of the same feelings of violation that people whose houses get
robbed experience, but this took that to a whole different level.

Someone didn't have to enter into Ellen's basement to start something on fire,
they just had to type on an array of buttons and electrons would flow between
regions of more and less concentration and poof, smoke on the wafer. This
dawning realization spread over Chip as the little tendrils wafted up from the
hard drive case and his smugness at straightening out the hacker's Rubix cube
curdled into anger and frustration.

Like it had on that day in high school when the jocks had taunted him with
those damnable powdered sugar donuts (damn Lurlene for reviving the memory so
expertly!), Chip's frustration and anger rose up in him and he had gained no
skills in his life since then that were equal to the task of processing,
releasing, or even controlling those emotions. So he began to cry.

This was not at all what Ellen expected her expert Craigslist-derived computer
technician to do.  Chip's youthful competence had been reassuring her up to
this point, but with that facade cracked and broken on the not ironically
distressed hardwood floors, Ellen began to weep softly too, while
simultaneously trying to comfort Chip by sliding over a box of tissues and
laying her birdlike hand lightly on his slick nylon-clad shoulder.

"First I fuck up going to his office, then I almost get run off the road, and
I don't even understand if she likes me or not, and I have no idea what's
going to happen to me here." A large snotty sniff interrupted Chip's recital
of all of the things that his psyche wasn't able to deal with right now.
Noticing the proffered box of tissues, he took one and mopped off what he
hadn't just sniffed back into his nose.  He continued, "I can't tell what it
means when she winks, and then when he winked," sniff!, "and that dead man on
my shoes was so... so dead, so final and for what and why me?" This last was a
slight wail, but now that he had run through his more immediate concerns to
those of a freshman philosophy student, he blinked hard, sniffled a few more
milliliters back into his sinuses and chanced to look up at Ellen's face.

Because Ellen was not a horde of hormone-soaked teenage boys, the look on her
face was quite unexpected for Chip. The basic tenderness that she showed his
crying, sniveling inner child was surprisingly revolutionary for a man who had
almost made it to his thirtieth birthday. "There, there" she muttered, which
was completely trite but astoundingly comforting to little Chip.  He snuggled
gently into the one paw she had put on his should and she gave a gentle
squeeze.

Her compassion had even diluted her own fearful crying, so she spoke fairly
clearly when she said "Oh Chip, what have I gotten you into?"  Ignoring the essential
narcissism of the old towards the young implicit in her question, Chip rushed
to reassure her that she had done nothing of the kind.

"I think I've gotten myself into it. I mean, I didn't have to go poking around
in the city's video database and I definitely did not need to go to that city
council meeting. I could have stayed home, if I had known what was good for
me." Chip sneered just a bit at himself for that last bit of self-indulgence,
but there was plenty of emotional wallowing to go around. "I don't know why I
even came back here. I could have stayed in Portland, right?"

Ellen knew very little of the details of Chip's life and breakup and eventual
peregrination, regardless of the effectiveness of a small town's rumor mill.
While the rivers of rumor flowed strong and deep, they also flowed in various
bends and oxbows that tended to leave some people in the social sphere high
and dry when it came to certain types of information.  She assumed that his
question was rhetorical and probed for a bit more understanding of her own.
"What did you say about being run off the road? Did something happen to you?
Were you hurt?"

"No, no, nothing like that. Coming out here this afternoon a big, black pickup
truck pushed me almost off the edge of your road and into the creek."

Ellen gasped with surprise, more surprise than was really appropriate for
finding out that a young man had come close to automotive injury.  "Did you
say a big, black pickup truck?"

"Sure," said Chip. "Like any one of a thousand unnecessarily large cargo
vehicles that people in this town use as simple conveyances. Why, what do you
know about big, black pickup trucks?"

"Well, just that the men down at the quarry all drive big trucks that are all
black." Ellen looked convinced that she knew just who had conspired in almost
rubbing out Chip.

"But, what makes you think that their black truck was the one that drove so
recklessly this afternoon."

"First, Chip, it sounds like there has been more than just simple recklessness
happening around you the past few days. Second, I saw one of those trucks go
roaring by right before you came up the driveway." Ellen gestured out the
large windows that fronted the basement open on one side. Pointing to a
particular point at the top of the hill, she said, "the road that you come up
to my place on wraps around the top of the hill and I can watch every car that
comes up go past over there. When you live out here, there aren't so few cars
that you throw a fiesta when one drives by, but you do tend to notice each one
that goes by, especially if it goes by too fast to be safe."

Chip clarified, "So you are telling me that you saw a big black truck go past
on the road soon before I came up the driveway. But we already knew that there
was a big black truck driving up the road. So what makes you so sure that
truck belonged to someone from the mining company?"

"Well, that's what you don't seem to understand, I know all their license
plate numbers!"

"Wait, how?" As a city dweller, Chip tended to think of cars as something so
numerous and ever-present yet ever-changing that he would never think to try
to recognize a particular car as it goes by. On the contrary, to Ellen, the
cars that passed by her house each had their own individual reason for being
there.  Every car passing by was some person on their way back from town to
one of the other houses down the road, or some person on their way from one
work site to another, or some mining minion up to no good on a Tuesday
afternoon.

"Well, they go by a few times every day. I just have a mind for numbers, I
guess. Plus, they make it easy. They assign the letter combinations on the
license plates by county, so almost everyone in town is either a CTC or a CTE.
Then memorizing the number isn't too hard. Especially when it's a palindrome
like 848."

Chip gaped. He had put Ellen into the harmless grandmother box and taped it
tightly shut inside his mind, but she didn't know or care how he thought of
her. She was just a lover of birds who was mentally spry enough to move her
art from wet pieces of plastic to charged bits of silicon over the course of
less than a decade. He shouldn't have been surprised that there was more under
her steely gray hair than recipes for monster cookies.

"So, you're telling me that the license number of the truck that ran me off
the road was either CTC 848 or CTE 848?"

"Oh, it was definitely CTC 848. Double palindrome." She nodded definitively.

Chip slipped his phone easily from its designated pocket and began to think,
talk, and type on it simultaneously. "Let's see what the custom search engines
have to say about that license number."

The modern internet was an economy of attention where being looked at by
eyeballs was the only thing that mattered and so companies had emerged to
offer every possible niche of data that interested even a smattering of
people.  Apparently many more than a smattering of people wanted to be able to
look up license plate numbers, because as soon as Chip entered "CTC 848",
there appeared multiple paid search results that had recognized the format of
his query and immediately offered to take him to the appropriate query on
WhosThatCar.com or LicenseSpy.me.  Choosing the top result for
WhosThatCar.com, Chip clicked and was taken to a fairly generic scraped data
result that must have pulled fairly generic information from a variety of
government and insurance databases and dumped them all together into a schema
soup.

It was low budget, but it had worked to capture his attention and while he
searched through the various tagged fields for the ones that had some meaning,
Chip had to scroll past three banner ads and one pop-over that obscured the
page entirely until he clicked on the tiny X in the top left, wait no right,
now bottom corner. "Bucks and Charles, LLC?" Chip read from a field labeled
"left_owner_first".

"That's them!" Ellen crowed. "B and C mining. It must be what the B and C
stands for!"

Chip thought she was jumping to conclusions again, but she had been fairly
legitimate with the truck license plate in the first place, so he tried to
hear her out. "I've never heard anyone call it 'Bucks and Charles' before. How
do we know that it's the same company?"

"You're the one holding the collected knowledge of mankind in your left hand.
Why don't you just ask it?"

Chip didn't think that he could just voice search for "Does B and C mining
stand for Bucks and Charles, LLC?" but he knew a good way to find out if those
two terms were strongly associated. He searched for the term "B and C mining"
and scrolled to the bottom of the search results page to the count of how many
results there were. Apparently 500,000 bloggers had copied each other's press
releases and entries about the recent kerfuffles in Southwest Wisconsin and
gotten themselves indexed on this search engine.  Then Chip searched for "B
and C mining" AND "Bucks and Charles" to find pages that included both
phrases. If there were no association between those two terms, then there
would be very few pages that would mention both things. On the other hand, if
someone somewhere knew that those two terms went together, then at least some
of those articles would say things like "B and C mining, also known as Bucks
and Charles, LLC of Maquoketa, Iowa" and the search would return lots of
results.  It was a way of finding out what everyone in the world except for
Chip might know already about the relationship between those two sets of
words.

When the conjoined search came up with 484,000 results, Chip began to lament
for his reading comprehension skills, because apparently almost every article
on the mining company used their full legal name too at least once. And yet,
in all of the distracted skimming he had done on the subject since Lurlene
first told him about the city council meeting on the next night, Chip had
never registered that "B and C" both had to stand for something and that every
journalist collective was going to have an editor who insisted that their
blogger explain what the abbrevation stood for.  While his offboard mind
already knew all of these things, Chip began to fear that his onboard mind was
losing more and more of its ability to know or notice anything at all.  He
kicked himself under the mental table and told himself that he was going to
have to do better if he was going to get to the bottom of all this.

He started to think out loud as he tried to put this stickered cube back into
its own ordered pattern. "So someone driving a truck that belonged to the
mining company tried to run me off the road," finally allowing himself to
notice some of the ill intent that had been pointed squarely at the back of
his skull earlier. "So what else has that company been doing?" he wondered.

Snapping himself out of his private puzzle-solving reverie, he asked Ellen
"Does anyone at the mining company know what you have up here?"

"What do you mean 'what I have up here'?"

"You know, all these computers and these videos?"

"Oh, of course they know. They've used some of my footage for their own
promotional videos on YouTube. They paid me for the rights to use a video I
had taken of some ducks frolicking in the shallow puddles that form at the
bottom of the quarry. It's not a replacement for all the wetlands that have
been drained in this area by corn farmers, but it does give migratory birds
someplace to stop as they travel up and down the flyway. There are some
surprising species that sometimes show up down in those quarries during the
fall migrations."

"Have they seen everything you've shot?" Chip wondered.

"Oh, of course not. They just asked if I had anything that would make their
quarries look natural and fun for animals."

"And would that footage have been on these hard drives?"

Ellen looked close at the neatly handwritten label scotched taped to the drive
enclosure that had stopped smoking on the desktop. "Not that one I think. That
has my newest stuff from this fall.  The video they used was from last year.
But Chip, why would they do something like this? What could be on these tapes
that would get someone so worked up that they would try to set them on fire?"

Ignoring the anachronism of "tapes" and "fire" in the present situation, Chip
replied "Well, let's see what they've been watching all this time."
