---
layout: post
title: Chapter 20
---

Now that Chip was thinking of himself as an infected carrier of the viral seed
of the next American revolution, he couldn't do even the simplest things
without worrying about their consequences.  When the barista at the coffee
shop smiled at him, he quickyl averted his eyes to avoid even the temptation
to talk to her and confront the polite question of "What's happening?"  Even
in his own apartment, Chip began to feel a sinking mix of fear, dread, and
pride that led him to frantically tidying up the space to look like the abode
of a proper revolutionary in between sneaking furtive glances out the front
windows that he had hastily curtained with the sheets from his bed to prevent
any spying in the visual portions of the electromagnetic spectrum.

Chip fished out the to-do list that he had made from where it had begun to
slide under the refrigerator and looked to see if there was anything that his
obedient mind had begun to cross off.  Under and beside broad headings like
"Gather Evidence" he had jotted down particular tasks that could actually be
contemplated like "Find out more about Buyck Lemaire".

Even in his grandiose paranoid state this afternoon, that felt like something
he could tackle.  He riffled through his own memories of Buck while he almost
reflexively began to riffle through the online versions of those same
memories.

As online social identity matured, so had services that archived and
correlated that information.  Chip subscribed to a service called FriendMinder
that promised to keep tabs on your "friends" online behavior when you weren't
able to pay attention to them.  Although that was their marketing pitch, it
was primarily used for stalking and invading other people's privacy.  You just
had to tell FriendMinder that you wanted to catch up on what had been going on
in the life of your long lost friend Buck Lemaire and they would query various
services and build a historical timeline for you.

Looking over Buck Lemaire's photos, status updates, online forum postings,
retweets, some leaked text messages, account types with various banks and
telecommunication companies, Chip could begin to build a scaffolding between
his adolescent memories and the present day.  It appeared to be the record of
an almost entirely normal American male of the early-mid twenty first century.
There were drunken bar shots, excited selfies with aspirationally beautiful
women, prideful declarations of economic success, slightly shameful displays
of economic failure, and a distinct blank spot where Chip remembered the legal
documents he had looked up before.

FriendMinder didn't mine the public records databases for court filings,
although Chip filed the idea away as a possible business venture where you
could also see where your friends were getting red light camera tickets and
indecent exposure citations from sidewalk surveillance cameras for taking a
leak in the alley.  Chip built his own folder in a mind-mapping application to
combine the FriendMinder data with what he had already dug up about Chip's
history with lawyerdom.

When he had a very pretty color- and date-coded dossier, he realized that he
knew very little more than when he had started out.  Regardless, he zipped up
the file and sent it off to Allison's encrypted work email address.  That
reminded him that he also needed to send her the results of his pulse
recognition project.  In the interest of verifiability, after he sent the
particular images that established Don Mockson's cardiovascular health in the
moments before his demise, he posted up the source code that he had used to do
the analysis as a new open source software project.  

He sent a couple of announcements that he had created the projcet to various
email lists and groups.  Within the next couple of days, word of the new
project should spread to the community of people who already knew how to do
that kind of work and if he was lucky, one of that particular flavor of geek
would feel honor bound to verify his code. Chip felt slightly guilty for
manipulating the prickly supremacy of geeks to his own ends, but he comforted
himself with the old trope that "it wasn't like he put a gun to their head".
If they were so insecure that they would spend four and a half hours
nitpicking anyone else who encroached on their intellectual territory, then
that was their own problem.

Chip was slightly frustrated by the vacuousness of what he was able to put
together from the digital world on Buck Lemaire so he decided he was going to
need to mobilize the high bandwidth pattern recognition parts of his evolved
brain and go see Buck in person.  A quick glance at the location check-ins
that FriendMinder had collated gave Chip a general idea of where Buck was
spending his working time and a quick text to Lurlene gave him an address.
Pasting the address into his phone gave Chip street level photos of a seedy
looking half brick, half vinyl siding building with small offices for rent
like those that an accountant might use for tax season.

It was within walking distance of Chip's loft so he grabbed his coat and its
load of gadgets and headed out the door.  When he arrived, he tried to slink
stealthily up to the door while paying attention for any possible clues, but
he just made himself look like a suspicious raccoon on a daylight trip to the
dumpster.  Slumped in the entry alcove, he gave up his attempts at spycraft
and looked up and down the names on the doorbells at the front door.  Someone
had handwritten "B & C" in sloppy block capitals with a poor attempt at an
ampersand.  Buck probably hadn't majored in penmanship in his one semester at
community college.

Before formulating any shred of a plan or what he would say when the door was
answered, Chip rang the bell for the local office of the B and C Mining
Company and had no choice but to push the door open when it buzzed
insistently.  The bell had been marked 3B, so he started up the cheaply
carpeted stairs to the third floor.  When he got there, all of the offices
were marked "2" so he figured that some European immigrant had first split the
building up into separate offices and the first floor was really the second
floor and so on, so he went up another flight of stairs.  He was in a dim
hallway with very little headroom, probably a converted attic space.  He
paused at the door to 3B to take a few deep breaths and knocked lightly before
deciding that people with legitimate business would just walk in to the
company's office and twisting the knob to go in.

His first look around confirmed that this was a converted attic space as the
ceiling tilted sharply down to a low wall at the edges of the room.  The
furnishings were beyond sparse with a dented metal filing cabinet and a
slightly swollen particle board desk with an old desktop computer on the top.
In the corner was a plastic milk crate with a collection of vaguely industrial
looking tools.

Behind the desk sat the customary tangle of wires and boxes with blinking
lights and a bright red network cable running to a junction box on the wall.
Whoever had renovated the building into this warren of box-like offices hadn't
skimped on wiring since it appeared that each office had its own network port
running back to some central location.

Wedged behind the saggy old desk was the surprisingly large bulk of Buck
Lemaire looking miserable in a folding metal chair with his hands on a plastic
keyboard whose originally professional beige color had oxidized to a lurid
mustard shade.  Buck jumped up out of the chair when Chip entered and looked
grateful for the interruption and the opportunity to unfold himself.  In the
center of the room where the slanting ceiling angles came together, it was
tall enough for Buck to stand without hitting his head, although Chip wondered
what happened when he tried to move around the room.

Choking down a bubble of the fear that had been with him since his
conversation with Allison and his realization that he was too close to patient
zero for his own comfort, Chip strode forward into the office and tried to
muster up a socially acceptable grin.

"You probably don't remember me, but we went to high school together.  I'm
Chip Hardwick."

Buck tilted his head to the side like a confused puppy and tried to place Chip
somewhere in his massive, thick-walled skull.  Failing that, Buck shrugged his
shoulders dismissively and extended a hand and asked "What can I do for you,
Chip?"

As a novice detective, Chip had no idea what lie was appropriate when talking
to a murder suspect, so Chip tried to stick as close to the truth as possible.

"Well, I heard that you were doing some work in town and I've recently moved
back and have been looking for some work." This was all true, but a sand
mining company hadn't been on the top of Chip's list of potential employers
when he had left Portland.

"Well Chip, unless you can drive a dump truck, I'm not sure what we have for a
guy like you."

Chip tried to ignore the casual slight to his masculinity and continued "Maybe
you need some help with communications work?  I've done some work with
computers."  This was a bit of an understatement, but Chip couldn't come up
with a way to explain the intricacies of his resume to a mining foreman so he
just left it at that.

"Sorry, friend, but all the IT stuff comes out of the central office.  They
set all this up and now they just run it from their fancy offices back in
Lacrosse.  If anything happens, I just call and they either fix it or tell me
what to turn off and back on."

Chip continued with some determination, circling closer to the topics he was
really interested in.  "What about public relations work?  Do you need someone
to craft your messaging and boost your social media presence?"

Chip's buzzword dropping outstripped Buck's ability to comprehend and Buck
must have started to feel a bit insecure because his next response had a tinge
of annoyance "I'm sure we've got our presence taken care of."

Recklessly drunk on a cocktail of fear and remembered shame, Chip tried one
final stab. "It seems like you might have some trouble with the Board of
Supervisors.  Do you have any needs in governmental relations?"  Chip knew
nothing about governmental relations, but Buck didn't know that.

The sliver of annoyance in Buck's voice widened and he squinted his eyes
suspiciously.  "What do you mean asking about the Board of Supervisors?  That
old guy at the meeting?  A tragedy I'm sure, but that doesn't mean that we're
going to have any trouble.  Why, what did you hear?"

Chip shied back from Buck's escalating tone of voice.  "I didn't hear
anything, I mean, I was there and I saw what happened, and I mean, it looked
like some of the Supervisors were paying attention to what they were
saying..."  Chip trailed off out of things to say that wouldn't raise Buck's
suspicions even higher than they already were.

"Oh yeah, I remember you now.  You were right there in the front row when the
guy keeled over."  Buck fixed Chip with an icy glare of recognition.

"Uh, yeah, I mean, I was, uh, there, uh, right there."

"Then you must have gotten a good look at exactly what happened that night,
right?"

Chip didn't want to have to answer that question in the affirmative, but he
couldn't come up with a plausible reason that he had gone temporarily blind so
he just gulped and nodded.

"It's a shame about how he got all worked up and had that heart attack.  A guy
that age needs to be careful how he leads his life," Buck snarled in
commiseration.

Chip was desperately ready to make his exit, so he gulped and nodded again and
started to back out the door. "Well, uh, just, uh, keep me in mind if you have
any job openings that fit my, uh, qualifications."

Buck smirked back at him with only one side of his former salesman's grin and
encouraged Chip to be careful going down the stairs.

"You take care now.  A person could slip and fall and hurt themselves out
there."
