---
layout: post
title: Chapter 24
---

The absolute original version of Ellen's least tern video had probably been
recorded on a removable sliver of flash ram in the back of some fiercesomely
complicated piece of photon to electron translation device known as a camera.
The light itself would have passed through a horrifically expensive and
precisely made set of glass lenses, then impinged on a extremely minutely
gridded piece of gussied up silicon known as a CCD which took incoming photons
and expressed their presence as a stream of electrons. With fast enough
computers, a program could read off the effects of those electrons and turn
them into generic multi-purpose digital bits that could express almost any
thought or image, but in this case, they would encode in their peculiar and
particular way the visual image that Chip eventually saw on the screen of his
laptop.

Those bits that had landed on that flash ram chip when Ellen had been outside
filming were almost certainly not there anymore, although it may be worth
asking. A woman who memorized all of the palindromic license plates that drove
by her house might be one to wear the digital equivalent of a belt and
suspenders and save both the original recording media as well as the
magnetically encoded version stored on the bulk hard drives that Ellen kept on
her shelves.  He could ask, but it didn't seem likely, given how hard Ellen
had been taking the loss of her hard drives in a puff of smoke.

Chip just kept reviewing the to and fro motions of that particular
configuration of bits as he walked up the stairs to his loft and started
dropping electronics and clothing off of his person. From camera chip to flash
drive to hard drive and onto the shelf.  Then at some point, Ellen's computer
had been taken for ransom while that hard drive was plugged in. The bits would
have been read from the hard drive into the memory of the computer and then
sent over the network to, where exactly? Chip certainly didn't know where they
ended up, but he did know what they were doing while they were there, which
was turning back into photons and shining into the eyeballs of some absolutely
maddening creep who was smart enough to know what he (she?) was seeing and
ruthless enough to zap those bits off of the hard drive where he had found
them.

Chip found a box of Cheezits in the cupboard and munched absentmidedly while
he noodled over the massive problem of how to get that file that he had
promised to Allison. He began to fiddle with the little square crackers,
standing them up like little houses of greasy cards on the granite countertop.
He made an abstract representation of Ellen's camera and her computer and he
began sliding the little crackers from pile to pile before he would eat them,
imagining that they were the bits of information traveling from place to
place in his mind and then into his stomach.

In frustration, he began sliding the chips down the length of the counter,
imagining them being slurped off down that network cable, past his own network
taps and off into the wild blue yonder. He didn't have any yonder in his
apartment, but he did manage to send the chips spinning off the end of the
counter in a very satisfying fashion, expressing some of his frustration with
a kind of bizarre performance art. His art happening was cut short by the new
frustration that gripped him when he found out that the box of crackers was
empty. He had been slinging his metaphorical bits right off the end of the
counter and so he was not nearly satiated when his fingers scraped uselessly
against the translucent bag stuffed inside the cardboard box.

Chip shrugged resignedly and went to the cupboard where he had gotten the
first box to look and see if there was another one. He wasn't the type of
person to buy two boxes of Cheezits at a time just to prepare for the certain
eventuality that the first one would become empty, but he also wasn't the type
of person to be so predictable in his decision-making that he wouldn't one
time buy a whole stack of boxes if they were on sale or his cart looked too
empty when he was in that aisle.

He was not quixotic enough in this instance to have bought more crackers than
he needed or wanted at the time, so when he checked the cupboard, there were
no more Cheezits in the house, although he checked all of the surrounding
drawers and cupboards just in case his unpredictability had made him put them
in some other storage location after he unpredictably bought so many. But
alas, he had been just his own boring self and let his future self down from
lack of Cheezits.

Frustrated again with a lack of junk food on top of his existing frustration
with not being able to pull a digital rabbit out of a digital hat to impress
the second pretty girl who had talked to him this week, Chip slouched his
shoulders doubly forward and moped glacially out of the kitchen. On his way
out, he walked by the end of the counter where he had been childishly flinging
his Cheezits off and he expected the shattered orange debris on the floor to
match his current shattered emotional state. But there were no Cheezits at all
on the floor.

Instead, the wastebasket had been under the overhang at the end of the counter
where people who owned bar stools would sit on them and all of the Cheezits
that he had thrown down the line had flown through the air and then slid down
the folds of the plastic trash can liner, which had amazingly been emptied and
replaced with a clean one the day before.  There, at the bottom of the bag was
a neat and orderly stack of the Cheezits that he had thrown, reassembled on
the far end of their travels back into an edible and graspable stack.

As Chip foolishly looked over his shoulder to make sure that no one was going
to witness him eating out of the trashcan, he bent down to retrieve the rest
of the snack he had been craving. His Cheezit frustration vanished as he began
munching the retrieved morsels. His original frustration about how to get back
the file that no longer existed also vanished, for now he knew just how to get
what he had promised to Allison.
