---
layout: post
title: Chapter 23
---

Chip did get to use a clichéd line from old television shows when he told
Ellen "I have to take this" and slipped out the basement door onto a brick
patio with weeds and grass coming up through it so that it straddled the line
between floor and lawn, but listed strongly onto the lawn side. He decided to
raise the communication stakes a couple of notches and call Allison right back
instead of continuing on with text or video messaging. He didn't know enough
about his own feelings to know the names of the things he felt at the
suggestion that Allison was leaving town, but he could at least by this point
in his life identify that he was experiencing something called "emotions" and
that he should pay attention around times like these.

He pulled up the phone number from her text and swiped it down to the phone
icon and stuck the big black rectangle up by his comparatively tiny ear. It
rang back at him with some kind of custom ringtone that straddled the line
between modem tones and noise rock. Allison answered before too many bars of
music or bits of data transpired. "What's up AAAAH-nold?" she smirked down the
radio waves. Chip wasn't sure if she was trolling him with her old movie
references or if it was just how she usually talked, but he let it go.

"Nothing much" Chip replied obligatorily, "What's up with you?"

"Nothing much" Ellen returned Chip's opening salvo. "I think I'm getting out
of Dodge or whatever you call this place."

"Wait, why? Why go now, can't you, uh, stay for a few more days? Don't you
have more, um, reporting to do?"

Ellen's tone shifted higher as she raised her lips into the chuckling
position. "Ooo, good line. Is that what you say to all the girl reporters?"
She nearly giggled at herself, then brought the tone of voice and corners of
her mouth back down closer to coolness. "The collective says this story isn't
going anywhere. There's no evidence on the dead guy, not enough to drum up
enough views to justify me being down here.  Maybe if some information comes
out on the civic news feeds, we'll wrap it up and push it out as an article,
but we don't need warm bodies on the scene for that kind of thing. I'll get my
subscriptions and search alerts polished up for this whole shebang and then
I'll move on to something new."

"Wait, what about another angle? Maybe you're missing something that you don't
even know you're missing?"

"Like what, boy detective? Unless the dead guy was sleeping with someone, there
isn't much else that can compete with blood and sex for online attention. If
nobody's a pedophile or there's no hilarious security camera footage, people
won't hardly look at a crime story these days."

"Look, just give me a chance, hear me out. Meet me at—"

She cut him off, "let's just say the usual place—".

"—the usual place then and I'll tell you about what you don't know."

"Okay sport, I don't have a thousand and one nights here, so come on down and
we'll make it snappy."

Chip ducked back inside and quickly and unconvincingly made his excuses to
Ellen. They had just uncovered the possibility of hacking, destruction of
property, and a cover-up that violated state and federal endangered species
laws and here Chip was running off to meet some girl at the drop of a text.
Ellen nodded curtly and thanked Chip for his time and before she got to the
silent "e" in time, Chip was gone up the basement stairs on his way to the
steep driveway and the road back to town and eventually over the river bridge
and back to the community prairie.

The city hadn't yet bought out the farmers on this often-flooded piece of land
back when Chip had lived in Fredrickton, but when he had come back when his
parents were sick, he hadn't ever stopped once in the little dirt parking lot,
yet here he was for his third time in as many days. He started to worry that
it was suspicious just showing up there again, but he tried to comfort himself
that lots of young men probably met up with young women to go for walks and
maybe he should just get a dog for cover if they were going to do this again
in the future.

Without a dog, Chip tried to look confident and comfortable and engaged when
he stepped out of the car, but his body still felt quite furtive as he sidled
over to where Allison stood against her own car bumper with her own phone
flipped open in front of her, thumbing away on one of the few remaining phones
with an actual keyboard, but Chip figured it might be an occupational hazard
to have to write on the go.  Relatively newly social mores demanded that you
treat someone with their thumbs on the phone screen as if they were in
conversation with another person and wait patiently for their attention, so
Chip slid his furtive sidle awkwardly to a stop beside the car door and tried
to wait patiently for Allison to acknowledge him, but he was so keyed up by
the prospect of getting to share something that he knew and nobody else did
that he pulled out his own phone and began texting his opening pleasantries to
Allison.

When her phone beeped and the notification of the new message from Chip
appeared, Allison whipped her head around and motioned with her hand for Chip
to settle down, boy, and finished off a message with her remaining thumb,
reaching the last few characters awkwardly across the other side of the wide
keyboard.  She slid off the bumper and turned to face Chip. "So, what's this
scoop you've got for me, Scoop?"

Chip charged off down the trail forcing Allison to double time a few steps to
catch up.  As they hustled around the loop trail, Chip told Allison the entire
story of Ellen Suffolk and her computer virus and the captured network traffic
that he had decrypted and replayed after her hard drives had smoked
themselves.  He finished up with the scene of the Least Tern that they had
been among the few people on earth to have seen already.

Ellen followed everything he had said with the skills of a modern reporter,
occasionally nodding or gesturing at something he said to lock a particular
phrase into her situation-dependent memory by tying it together with a
particular movement.  But as he finished, she still looked quite skeptical, or
maybe even confused. It was hard for Chip to tell the difference.

"So what's the story supposed to be?" she asked quizzically. "What's the
headline? What gets enough clicks that it's worth being here in meatspace?"

"Well, how about 'Mining company stopped in tracks by tiny bird'?"

"David and Goliath isn't a good theme for online. Everyone suffers from
delusions of grandeur when they think that they're the ones making the news on
social media, so they tend to identify with the Goliath instead of the David
and the numbers don't work out."

"Well then, what about writing about the victory for the anti-mining forces
like Don Mockson's bunch? Tie it into his death, human interest on how the
band of crusaders rallied after their leader had fallen?"

"Better. It's still little guy vs. big guy, but at least it has some martial
resonance so we can get the young male demographic who loves the suggestion of
battle.  But, unfortunately for you, what makes you think that Mockson and his
crunchy cronies have won?"

"Well," Chip wrinkled his brow in the middle wondering where he hadn't been
clear about what he had witnessed in Ellen Suffolk's basement. "Well, Ellen
said that it would be years before the state might sign off on any new mining.
So those people from the meeting got their way. No mining for more years, or
maybe even indefinitely, depending on what they find. Isn't that what their
group wanted?"

"I don't think they were chanting 'no more mining' in that meeting, were they?
I think you've misjudged your friends from the granola aisle in the
supermarket. I don't think they want a regulatory solution at all. They were
chanting "down with the Commerce Clause" weren't they. I think that's what
they really want."

Chip looked confused and crestfallen that what he figured was a victory was
no such thing. "Why does it matter how the problem gets solved? Don't we have
rules about endangered species to protect the environment and they are going
to do just that here? What's wrong with a, uh, what did you call it, a
regulatory solution?"

"Have you ever heard the term 'regulatory capture', Chip?" Allison indulged
him with the most schoolteacher-y glance she could muster.

Without grabbing for his phone, Chip couldn't say that he had any idea what
that term meant and he was forced to admit his ignorance with a slight shake
of his head.

"It's a term that refers to the relationship that emerges between a regulated
industry and the regulators who make and enforce the rules. It isn't just bad
guys on one side and good guys on the other side.  Most regulations are
specialized enough that the only people who understand the situation well
enough to enforce them are former industry insiders.  Or on the other hand,
the only people that knows the regulations well enough to get around them are
the former regulators who get hired on as consultants to work for industry and
extract what they want.

"When that happens, the regulators and the regulated begin to align their way
of thinking so that the agency in charge of stopping some corporation from
doing something begins to think that maybe it isn't such a terrible thing for
them to do. Over time, this leads to weakening of regulation or the creation
of loopholes that don't seem so bad when they were put in place.

"The reason that Don Mockson and his young friends weren't out shooting videos
of terns themselves is that they probably don't even trust the environmental
regulators to keep the mining company out. Oh, here's a perfect example of
regulatory capture for you! Who's the agency in charge of endangered species
regulation in this state?"

Chip chewed his lip, trying to recall the TLA for the department that Ellen
Suffolk had named. Chip figured he had the first letter, "The, uh, the D—" he
racked his little wet brain until it coughed up the euphonious combination of
letters, "—the DNR".  He smiled satisfied at his feat of human memory.

"Correct. One half point for the man in the trenchcoat. For the other half of
the point, what does that stand for?"

"Department of—" Chip began confidently, "—of, uh, department of..." He
frowned again now, going for just a wild guess, "department of natural
regulation?"

"Bzzzt. I'm sorry, we have some lovely parting gifts. Department of Natural
Resources. And what is sand?"

Chip looked around to see if anyone could give him a clue if this was a trick
question, but there were no other heads visible above the tall, dry prairie
grasses. Seeing no one, Chip tried the closest answer still in his mind. "Uh,
a natural resource."

"Ding, ding, ding, we have another winner! Yes, if the whole department that
protects the natural resource of Least Terns is also in charge of regulating
the natural resource of silica sand, then they are seriously captured
conceptually. If we want to make sure that everyone has their chance to get
their fill of terns and turkey hunting and sand mining, then we just need to
make common-sense rules about how and where to go about hunting and mining and
keeping terns alive.  There's no will to prevent mining or listen to the will
of citizens in the regulatory approach. The regulatory approach is only about
making sure that everyone gets all the pie they can eat."

Chip was seriously frowning now. "But Ellen thought that there might not be an
environmental impact statement on the mine for a couple of years."

"Yes, but then there will be such a statement. And then there will be
mitigation plans and workarounds developed based on that statement and then
sand mining will be permitted during certain periods of time and in certain
locations and then in more locations and at more times as the mining industry
keeps lobbying for more and more of the regulations that they and their
friends in the DNR find so common sense."

Allison seemed really worked up about this, which concerned Chip who liked all
of the people in his immediate sphere of emotion to maintain a certain
equilibrium at all times. He shrugged, preparing to go to one additional level
of remove, "So, I guess my story isn't enough for you to stick around town for
any longer?"

Allison did a double take. "Wait, no, why would you say that? Your story isn't
good news for people who want to stop sand mining in this county, but it's
plenty good news, especially with that video. Tell me, is this bird cute? Please
let it be cute. Do you remember those spotted owls. Those things were cute. Is
a, uh, least tern cute?"

Chip considers, "No, not spotted owl cute. It's a kind of seagull I think. It
looks like a seagull with a black hat on."

Allison continues constructing the eventual blog post in her head, imagining
the embedded video above the fold with flapping birds, cutting up 6 second
trailer version before she even saw it, nodding to herself.

Then she stopped dead in her tracks and turned to face Chip who had to screech
to a halt and take a half step backwards to be facing her questioning look
head on.  "What's the paper trail on this video? Did you check the EXIF tags?
What can we do to authenticate the footage?"

Chip is glad that he's already stopped dead in his tracks or else this
question would have stopped him dead.  "Um, there's no paper trail. It's not
really a, uh, video, I mean, not per se, it's a, uh, sequence of network
packets, decoded on a virtual Windows machine browser, turned into a series of
screenshots. Is that a problem?"

Allison doesn't understand half of what Chip said, but that in and of itself
is already bad news. "I don't think that is going to cut it with my editorial
klatsch. There's been so much faked video going around recently that it's
almost completely poisoned the waters for video exposés. If you want to use a
video to smear someone, you'd better have a notary present for each step in
the transcoding process.  Otherwise, they just come out and say that it must
be faked, even if it's clearly not."

Chip looked absolutely crestfallen. He had thought that he was losing his shot
to spend any more time around Allison back when she read him the regulatory
riot act. Then, she brought him back by starting to talk and dream about the
article she could write. Now, his spirits had crashed back to slightly below
ground level with her latest objection that the video he had hand-crafted was
insufficiently authentic. Apparently nobody appreciated artisanal bit-bashing
in the online news world.

"Hey, no problem, I'll get you the original file, so you should probably stick
around to start writing up your story. I'll send you an encrypted message with
the video when I get it."  Which would be a safe way of conveying an item that
Chip had no idea how we to get at.
