---
layout: post
title: Chapter 29
---

After their tense showdown, Lurlene consented to ride in Chip's EconoBox
electric while he drove. She figured it might help to make him feel better
about his level of contribution to their mutual enterprise. The male ego was a
fragile thing that took constant care and feeding to maintain. It was just
another job that fell to women without appreciation or recompense.

Chip drove the little coupe as vigorously as he could manage as they hardly
even sped through town. He had been coy about their destination in an effort
to seem in charge and knowledgeable about at least one thing, but Lurlene
figured out in a hurry where they were going.

"I though you said that Buck destroyed Ellen's computer when he set it on
fire. Why do we need to go there now?"

Chip winced a little as she burst his bubble of mystery, but he tried to
explain, "It wasn't her computer that Buck destroyed. As far as we know,
that's still locked up tight and waiting for Buck to make the next move. He
hasn't tried to extort any ransom from Ellen, but he did smoke one of the
external hard disk drives."

Lurlene tried again to understand. "But why do we need to go all the way out
there? Isn't everything on the internet? Can't we just jump from computer to
computer any time we want?"

"There are still some things that work best when we slide two pieces of metal
together and make some electricity flow through them. This is one of them.
Plugging a drive into the back of Ellen's computer is the easiest way to make
it look to Buck like there is a drive plugged into her computer.  Although,
now that you mention it..." Chip gazed off dangerously into space while he
drove, muttering a little about "virtual drivers" and "hypervisor injection
attacks" Lurlene shook her head slightly and chose not to point out that maybe she
should have driven.

They still managed to arrive safely at Ellen's house atop the bluff, but that
wasn't as much due to Chip's remaining whit of driving skill, but rather to
the fact that he wasn't challenged by anything as dangerous as oncoming
traffic.  When they arrived, Chip knocked hastily on the door and turned the
knob to go in since it almost certainly wasn't locked. Most of the people who
lived out in the country around here didn't even know where the keys to their
house were, much less use them regularly.

Chip hadn't thought to call ahead before he charged off to show Lurlene just
how decisive and active he could be, so Ellen Suffolk was quite surprised to
see her hairdresser and her IT consultant together barging into her mud room.
She rallied after the sweet smile that Lurlene shot her with a wink and
welcomed them into the open living area. Ellen turned off into the kitchen and
asked them if they wanted anything to drink. Lurlene never turned down the
opportunity for hot beverages and Chip would have drunk a cup of coffee during
his own funeral, so Ellen ended up making a pot for all of them.

Once the coffee was well on its way to being brewed and the mismatched
handmade mugs had been set out, then she casually turned to Chip and Lurlene
and asked sweetly "So, what brings you two here together?"

Lurlene smiled and turned to Chip to invite him to take the lead on this one.
"Well, uh, we're going to try to hack back into the computer of whoever is
behind what has been happening around here. I'm going to install a file that
looks like a video and hopefully the perp will try to open the file and then
we'll have him." Chip nodded to punctuate what he thought was a masterfully
brief explanation of a complex technical endeavor.

Lurlene just smiled and got even closer to the point, "We need to go
downstairs and plug something into the back of your computer, Ellen." Ellen
nodded, surprised at having any further involvement beyond losing the video
footage that was so valuable to her, but she seemed gratified to be able to
help and she led them down the stairs and gestured for Chip to have his way
yet again with her computer setup.

Chip noted that she had unplugged the smoldered hard drive and set it to the
side of the desk nearest the trash can. Seeing the burnt out old drive gave
Chip a brief moment of panic as he realized that the adversary might not
be looking for anyone to connect another hard drive after what he had already
done, but Chip just had to hope that the person on the other end was going to
be anxious enough to see whatever Ellen had recorded that he would at least
take a look if something new appeared. There was no telling how long that
it would take that person to notice that something had changed on a distant
computer connected by a poorly encrypted tunnel to, he hoped, an aging desktop
computer in a crummy office building in this crummy town.

Chip despaired that his ragtag plan was held together with so much spit and
dreams, but he remembered Lurlene's encouragement to action over analysis and
he slipped the thumb drive that he had prepared from its zippered pocket and
slid it as confidently as he could into the socket on the front of Ellen's own
computer tower.  He turned back to the other two and said "Now, there's
nothing to do but wait."

They trooped back upstairs and spent some time with the coffee that they had
previously been waiting for.  Lurlene had no sooner asked "So what is it that
we are waiting for?" when Chip's cell phone, laptop, and watch all started
ringing simultaneously, some of them in two different ringtones.

Chip just shrugged and said. "That."  He slung his laptop onto the high
counter that limned the kitchen and flipped it open and started typing while
narrating. "I set our trapdoor computer up so that it would page me once
anything tried to contact it on its local network. The link that I faked on
Ellen's computer downstairs installed a root kit that went looking for its
command and control servers and it must have found the little box that Lurlene
dropped off for us." Chip grimaced slightly as his mind veered too close to
the memory of how it had been "dropped off", but he was able to veer back away
by focusing on what he was doing on his laptop.

He continued narrating, "So now I'm on my way to check what the command and
control box says is going on." He tapped some more keys, frowned, tapped some
more, then smiled and nodded as he apparently figured out that everything
looked as it should. "Right, so now I can hop from there to the office
computer..." More tapping, more frowning, more tapping, then some sneering,
then, "Do either of you need to know anything about the finances of the B and
C Mining corporation? There's lots more files on here than just the ones that
I'm looking for."  Both Lurlene and Ellen came to look over his shoulder, but
it wasn't like Chip was playing movies or looking at spreadsheets. Instead the
screen was just a black rectangle full of light gray letters and the two
watchers went back to their coffee while Chip tapped away on the keyboard.

Chip started looking in earnest for the file that he had gone to all this
trouble for in the first place. The video that had been played from Ellen's
computer that had started all of this had been played by the web browser, so
Chip started looking in the cache that the web browser kept of the most recent
files that it had downloaded from the internet. It took Chip a while to find
that directory since he was less familiar with the Windows web browsers'
conventions, but he Googled his way to the knowledge he needed, but as he
scanned the contents of the directory, he didn't see anything that looked like
a video.

Frustrated and a bit panicked that all had been for naught, Chip tried to find
the files that would have come down to the video player extension. More
searching online led him to even more deeply nested directories, but at least
the files he found there were video files.  The cache files had completely
meaningless names made up of the digits from 0-9 and the letters from a-f, so
Chip knew that they were probably a hexadecimal encoded version of something,
but there was no way he knew of to interpret their meaning.  Instead, Chip
listed the times that the cached video files had been created and tried hard
to figure out what time it was now and when it had been that Chip had managed
to reconstruct the video footage and how long before that Ellen had noticed
the smoke coming from her hard drive.

"Ellen, what day was it that you smelled the smoke?"

"Oh, let's see, why, it must have been Thursday. I had been in town shopping
for some straw bales to mulch my irises and that was my usual Thursday morning
trip into town."

Chip tried to process the implications of someone who only needed to visit
civilization on a weekly basis, but it was too distracting for him at that
moment and he shook the thought away.  He went back to the laptop screen and
started looking for the files that came from Thursday. Without any way to
preview the video files via the tenuous connection of his laptop through the
little command and control box under Buck's desk, he started up a sequence of
commands that would download all of the cached video files starting backwards
in time from Thursday, then go back and take all of the files that came after
that in time.

When Chip was satisfied that the file transfer was under way, he tacked on for
good measure another program that would slurp off all of the rest of the files
from that computer. Who knew what information from there would be useful for
the late Don Mockson's cadre of activists? Chip figured that the least action
he could do for them without any analysis as Lurlene suggested was to offer
them as complete a picture as possible of the legal and financial situation of
B and C mining company. It was no Wikileaks, but at least he could hope to
strike some blow for transparency and truth.
