---
layout: post
title: Chapter 30
---

Their shared stress-induced obliviousness persisted until they had backed out
of the short driveway at the top of the hill and started forward again on
their way back toward town. Very quickly, the large black grill of the truck
in the rearview mirror and the throaty roar of its internal combustion engine
made it impossible for Chip and Lurlene to miss. Chip did the opposite of
blushing, his cheeks turning pure white. Lurlene didn't seem frightened, but
the sparks seeming to fly from here eyes sure made her look more angry than
Chip ever wanted to make someone. Her anger was a little bit soothing because
it was like taking on the world with a lion on your side, but it was also
terrifying because he was now riding in the car with a lion.

Lurlene even growled a little bit as she demanded that Chip "punch it!", but
she must have forgotten that they weren't behind the wheel of her Corvette,
which was a vehicle that was a movie match made in heaven for this chase
sequence. But instead, they were riding in his completely sensible and useless
in a car chase two-person electric runabout. At the cost-weight ratio of the
little energy saving coupe, they were lucky that they still had doors.

Although it looked very much like a rhino chasing a mouse during an Olympic
speed walking event, Buck restrained himself from ramming the mouse completely
off the road, or just stepping on the mouse and smashing it flat as the big
truck seemed eminently capable of doing. Like many high speed car chases that
end up on television and social media sites, this was actually a quite low
speed chase as Chip's car was capable of only a delicate amount above the
posted speed limit on the gravel road heading back into town.

If anything, the chase got even sillier as they got back into town. Buck
ran most of the stop signs to keep close behind Chip and Lurlene, but he
signalled turns, braked when they did to maintain his distance, and continued
to avoid smashing them like a bug. Chip was so petrified by this experience
that he really didn't have any thoughts on where to go or how to escape from
his predicament. Unlike any prey animal, Chip didn't even know how to save his
own skin in this situation.

He turned to Lurlene and gasped out the obvious existential question "What are
we going to do?" Lurlene yelled at him to "Just keep driving," which seemed to
be good enough advice because just driving had kept them alive this long.
"Maybe if we can't outrun him, we can outlast him." Lurlene suggested. "How
far can this windup toy go before it needs to be recharged?"

"I don't know. A hundred miles I think the reviews said on Amazon?"

"You bought a car on Amazon?" cried Lurlene.

"Wait, what, sure, yeah, of course I did. Don't you go there first to find out
the best price before you check other stores? Nobody could beat their price on
this trim level."

Lurlene shook her head, flipping tiny droplets of her lion's anger off onto
the blanket of insecurity that hung over Chip. "I'm sure he's got more fuel in
his truck than that. Buck may be a total pinhead, but he also fills up every
time he gets down to half a tank."

Chip tried out a possible suggestion, "What if you jump out at the next stop
sign and run for it?" Lurlene didn't think that was a good idea at all.

"Shouldn't you be the one doing the running. Buck's got the hots for me, I
might be able to talk my way out of this. But if he catches you he'll take you
apart like one of those fetal pigs that we had to dissect back in eleventh
grade. Chip Sparks, I hated that unit. Don't make me relive it tonight. Maybe
you should be the one escaping on foot."

Chip uh-huhed vigorously at the thought of avoiding dissection completely for
the evening, but he also huh-uhed the idea of abandoning Lurlene to face Buck
Lemaire by herself, no matter how pretty that self might be.

Chip tried again to make some sense of it. "We can't keep going forever, so we
need to stop some place. We need it to be a place where we can have some
advantage over Buck." Like most rational analysis, Chip was completely correct
and also completely useless because he didn't know where to find an advantage
over Buck. His only chance of one-upping Buck Lemaire was if he ran them down
and then agreed to play math league against Chip to see if he should release
them unharmed. Chip didn't like the chances of that happening, so he thought
he'd keep going.

Lurlene ah-hahed. "I know a place where we can lose him. Somewhere that a big
truck like that will be a hindrance rather than a help. Turn left up there!"
Chip doubted somewhat that his little electric car would be better at anything
than Buck's big truck, but he didn't have a better suggestion, so he carefully
turned on his blinker and made the left that Lurlene suggested.

Lurlene's further directions took them out the east side of town past the
more grotesque strip mall developments of two decades earlier. The ongoing
tension between the quaint downtown business district and the globally
relevant big-box brands had never resolved itself in Fredrickton and both
poles seemed to be the worse for it, with vacant storefronts on the main
street downtown (not called Main Street of course) and vacant hangar-sized
retail temples on the state highway leading out of town. Lurlene sent Chip
straight past the outlets, so apparently her plan which she hadn't fully
revealed was not to lose him by driving through the aisles of the Wal-Mart.

Instead, she had Chip follow the signs for a state wilderness area that
surrounded one of the many creeks in the area. It was one of the closest
wilderness parks to the town, but of course that didn't mean very much to
people who fretted more about hitting deer on the way to work than hitting
traffic. If Fredrickton were instantly replaced by Portland, then this little
state park would turn into a hipster-drenched weekend shit show of Gore-tex
and selfie sticks, but as it was, there probably wouldn't be more than one car
in the grassy old parking lot.

That worried Chip enough for him to ask Lurlene what she had in mind, "It
seems like you're taking us right off the beaten path onto the murdering path
Lurlene. Do we need to make it so easy on him to hide the bodies?"

She leaked a hint of her own stress when she told Chip "Shut up and do what I
tell you."

He did shut up and he tried to follow even the directions that he imagined she
might be thinking at each moment. At this moment, that meant keeping the
little car on the gravel road that led to the parking lot. Chip had never
mastered the fine art of driving on gravel roads. He always felt that road
surfaces should be primarily immobile like asphalt or concrete, rather than
shifting under his tires. He could see the smooth ruts that had been worn
through the gravel to the solid dirt below, but they never seemed to line up
with the side of the road that he wanted to drive on. Since he wasn't capable
of flaunting rules and safety enough to just drive in the middle of the road
where the smooth parts were, he had to wade through the deeper gravel on his
side of the road.  Buck's truck of course had no problem chewing the poor road
into compliant pieces, so Chip began to doubt again the wisdom of Lurlene's
plan, whatever it was, but he bit his tongue rather than ask more questions.

"Okay, when you take the turn into the parking lot, don't turn off into a
parking spot. Keep going straight. When you come to the chain across the road,
just keep going that way."

"Are you crazy?" Chip couldn't keep himself from asking another question, but
this one didn't offer a very high information content for the current
situation, so Lurlene just rolled her eyes like only an ex-cheerleader can and
pointed ahead at the right-hand turn that was coming up to head into the
parking lot. Chip carefully slowed and signaled again, maintaining his slow
speed through the turn to try and get the best look possible at the layout. It
was a typical park parking lot, which might have been graveled at one point,
but the weedy grass had grown up well above the tops of any rocks that
underlay it. The park department just mowed the lot every once in a while and
the small number of people who came out here just parked on what would have
passed for a fine lawn in some of the places Chip had lived.

Along one side of the parking lot was an access road that the park department
probably used every once in a while to be able to drive their lawn mower past
the low fence that kept the cars safely in while the owners got out.  The
access road was closed off to everyone else by a long metal chain that
stretched across the road and would be padlocked on one end so that authorized
personnel could unlock it to drive through. Now, Lurlene thought that Chip and
his tiny plastic skateboard on steroids should ignore the countermeasures and
just drive right on through.

Such was Chip's innate acquiescence that he didn't even raise a further
concern, he just did as he was told and drove slowly into the slack chain. The
chain caught under the little bumper and gave the beginnings of a convincing
tug on their forward motion, but very quickly, the retardation slackened and
the tiny car continued out of the parking lot that it had just entered and on
down a rutted and overgrown track through a pleasant woodland with tall trees
dangling their remaining brown leaves over the roadway.

"How did you know that would happen?" Chip asked breathlessly.

"Oh, I noticed once that they didn't even bother locking the padlocks on those
gates. Probably some high school kid lost the key one summer and the old guys
in the park department are too cheap to buy a new lock, so they just keep the
original one gently tucked between the post and the chain."

"Wow. That would have been a great story to hear 4 minutes ago. But, how does
this help us. Now we're off the road and onto the kind of terrain that a
four-wheel drive pickup truck is made for. What does this car have that can
help us out here?"

Lurlene only replied enigmatically, "A slim figure. Just keep going as far
back as you can." The access road ran along on the flat bottom ground next to
the little creek. The creek swung lazily back and forth across the bottom of
its valley where it presumably had been re-choosing its route periodically for
a million or more years. The road on the other hand had chosen one straight
route and stuck with it, which meant that at times, the river came perilously
close to Chip's side of the car and he tried to balance his fear of getting
gorilla punched by the man in the truck behind them with his fear of flying
off into the water like some yankee bad guy from the Dukes of Hazzard.

The further back they drove in the park, the less and less regular the road
maintenance became. The potholes were bigger and the little car kept scraping
the low parts of the drivetrain as it went down or back up from some car-sized
declivity full of old rain water. In addition to the condition of the road,
the trees of the forest began to grow closer and closer to the road. At first,
it was clear that the road had been kept clear for some time, but then
neglected so that seedling trees had begun to encroach on the right and left
side of the road. Chip worried about the unfortunate tree that had taken root
in the middle of a gravel road, but apparently that level of germination and
determination was quite rare because the little car kept slipping between the
trees on both sides and it went deeper into the forest.

However, Buck's truck had begun to emit surprising cracking and crunching
noises as it barreled along behind them at a threateningly small but
thankfully consistent following distance. The little seedling trees that had
been foolish enough to sprout closest to the road were being rammed by the
reinforced bumpers on Buck's truck and so far none of the little trees had
survived, while the thick metal bumpers didn't seem damaged at all.

"I think I see where you're going with this Lurlene, but these trees don't
seem to be slowing him down at all!" Chip avoided the panicked and sarcastic
question, but since his remark wasn't interrogatory, Lurlene must have figured
that it didn't warrant a response because she kept peering intently out the
window as if looking for landmarks. She whispered her next instruction "just
up here where the road looks like it ends, just keep going straight."

That was worse advice than being told to drive through a metal chain, but
after this much time obeying Lurlene, Chip couldn't back out or back up, so he
kept on going, trying to see the exact point where the road ended and he would
keep going. As they came around a long right hand turn, Chip saw clearly what
Lurlene must have been remembering. The park maintenance track didn't stop
anywhere, instead it just ended. Two tall trees that looked absolutely immense
to Chip's human-scale mind stood astride the road and the beaten down look of
the grass in front of those trees told the story of park workers turning at
this point.

But Lurlene didn't intend for Chip to turn around any time soon. She talked
louder with increasing excitement, "There it is, there it is. Hit the hole!"
Chip didn't see anything that looked like a hole, but he did have a vague
recollection that this is something that Lurlene had said a great deal when
Buck Lemaire was a star running back for their high school football team. Chip
only had time for a quick glance at Lurlene to see if she was serious before
he had to turn back to the front and judge his own width and position relative
to those two trees. And like driving through the posts that protect the
automated teller machine from automobile-equipped thiefs, Chip threaded the
little electric car into the gap between the two trees. If he had been more
accurate, he might have kept both of his rear-view mirrors, but his approach
had been lopsided and he whacked off the mirror assembly on Chip's door.

But, as close as it was for Chip to make the run between the two trees, it was
totally impossible that 
