---
layout: post
title: Chapter 27
---

Chip's development work had taken him most of the day, so it was early evening
as Lurlene shrugged her shoulders back and prepared herself for the task that
Chip had asked of her and that she had so excitedly accepted for the general
purpose damage that it might do to her ex-roofer Buck Lemaire.  Chip couldn't
stop himself from reminding her again of what needed to happen. "So the box
needs to go into a power outlet somewhere inconspicuous and then," he said
holding up a red cable with plastic plugs on each end, "this cable has to plug
into the same set of jacks that the other network cable in there does."

Lurlene bristled at Chip's anxious repetition of the extremely basic basics of
his plan. "I know, you god of technology. We've been over it 10 times since I
watched you finish doing exactly that under your own kitchen counter. I think
I can plug two things in without needing to call you for instructions."

Chip ran off another anxious question with little regard for Lurlene's growing
sense of frustration. "What are you going to do for a distraction?" he asked
probingly.

Lurlene turned to face Chip head on and tucked her shoulders back which made
her chest push forward under the thin fabric of the remaining fragments of her
tee shirt.  She raised a hand and patted Chip tenderly and patronizingly on
the cheek. "That is for me to know and you to never find out. Unless you're
far more lucky than you have been so far in your life."

Chip huffed out his frustration and anxiety. "Okay, fine, just don't let him
know that I'm involved in this. He already tried to get me on the road and I'd
hate to think that he might do the same to you, especially while you're in his
office."

Lurlene grinned, "Relax already. I think I'm eminently qualified by my station
in life for manipulating the emotions and perceptions of males."  She turned
to go, holding the plug computer and its network cable dangling in her hands.
Chip hurried to follow her down the stairs but she put out a hand. "Where are
you going? Are you going out to get some groceries while I'm gone?"

"What, no, I'm going with you. I'll wait in the car while you're inside."

"God, why would you do that, Chip? Didn't you just say that you didn't want
Buck to know that I'm associated with you? I think that he might put 6 and 12
together if he sees you sitting in my car parked outside."

"Oh, well, uh, okay. I could hide in the trunk while you're in there!" Chip
tried, arguing for his continued involvement.

"Would you be more comfortable locked in my trunk than in your own apartment?"
she asked. "It's not like you can do anything to help me if you're hiding
inside a locked metal box on wheels. If you're going to be waiting out of
sight for me to come back, why not just wait here at your apartment? I promise
I'll come here straight away when I'm finished up there."

Chip shrugged under the burden of logic that came down on his nascent
chivalry. He had just figured the he wanted to be there in case anything
happened to Lurlene, but she made a pretty good case that there wasn't
anything he could actually do about anything that happened to her.  He took a
backwards step up to the top step and nodded, "OK, then. Uh, be careful?" he
offered with a hint of query at the end of his encouragement.

Lurlene smiled at Chip's attempt at verbal kindness and turned quickly with an
increasing degree of excitement to be engaged in active retaliation. She
headed off down the stairs and tossed back at Chip, "Oh, I think Buck's the
one who'd better be careful now."

As her car's throaty engine accelerated away from the curb in front of his
building, Chip resisted the temptation to go over to the tall windows along
the front facade and check that she had made it safely down a block that she
had probably driven on daily for her entire adult life.  He flopped back on
the bed where she had lately been napping and he felt the warmth of the spot
she had occupied on the sheets.

Chip pulled in a long, deep breath and let it
slowly hissing out. One of his bro co-workers had been a student of Wim Hof,
the Dutch dardevil who had a fancy breathing routine that was meant to
increase the oxygen stored in the blood. Chip's co-worker had offered the
briefest two-minute lesson one day while they waited for the coffee machine to
drop down their designated beverages and Chip had remembered the body
sensation ever since. He took more deep inhales and short exhales, trying to
recapture the tingly fullness that seemed to help wipe away some of his mental
busyness. Chip didn't know enough neurochemistry to be able to analyze what
was happening with the signaling pathways in his brain, but he knew that there
was a distinctive feeling of certain thoughts getting wiped right off the
slate chalkboard of his mind. It was humbling to be reminded that Chip's
conscious thought stream was just a minor ripple atop a robust substrate of
chemistry and electricity. For a person who lived so much inside his mind, it
was surprising to find out that his mind lived inside his body and it wouldn't
let him totally forget that fact.

Soothed slightly by the chemical hack he had applied to his own brain, Chip
tried to forget the possible danger that Lurlene was in right now and focus on
the other end of the hack that he was attempting to perpetrate back on Buck
who had apparently been the original hacker of Ellen Suffolk's video editing
computer.  If Lurlene succeeded, then he would have installed a back door, or
maybe even a trap door into Buck's computer network. But he still had to find
a way to get someone inside to answer a knock and open up the front door.

There was only one thing that Chip knew that Buck Lemaire did with that
computer, one thing that he had witnessed happening from alongside the network
cable in Ellen's basement. Buck used that computer for watching videos from
Ellen's hard drive, among all of the other office uses that an old gray
desktop computer could be put to. Chip perused the files in the Metasploit
documentation that described the various categories of security exploits that
were available to him. There were plenty of things that one computer program
could do to another to make it misbehave, but most of them were best deployed
or activated using what security experts called "social engineering".

Social engineering was a category of security exploits that attached the
weakest link in any computer system, the mushy operator seated in the chair.
The classic example of social engineering was sending an email to someone
pretending to be a legitimate message that asked someone to click on a link or
visit a certain website. Even earlier examples of social engineering existed
with hackers calling someone up on the phone and convincing them to turn
certain systems on our off. Most magic tricks and pranks also relied on the
same principles of social engineering where someone pretends that one reality
is true and convinces their target to come along with that understanding of
reality.

Chip tried to come up with a convincing cover story for sending Buck Lemaire
an email that would get him to click on an arbitrary internet link, at which
point the trapdoor that Chip had configured appropriately could spring open.
But Chip didn't have any good ideas for who he should pretend to be and he
certainly didn't think he could call Buck Lemaire up on his office phone and
convince him to type in some web address on that office computer.  After what
had happened on Chip's prior visit to the office, he didn't want to chance any
further antagonism when another one of his flimsy cover stories fell apart.

As Chip read over the catalog of vulnerabilities that Buck's computer might or
might not have, Chip tried to focus in on what he already knew of that
computer from the few observations he already had of its behavior. It was a
bit like trying to figure out what the object inside a wrapped Christmas
present was by shaking it, except that in this case the box didn't make
rustling noises, instead it emitted and received packets of information. Chip
had uploaded all of the network traffic that he had captured in Ellen
Suffolk's basement onto an online storage service and now he re-downloaded it
onto his laptop. It was a large amount of data, but because it was all broken
into the regular packets of data that passed over the network, there was a
great deal of structure to that data.

Exploring this sequence of data like other people might explore a new city on
vacation, Chip started writing programs to search through the network data,
trying to build up a helpful kind of map of what was in there. He went through
the data looking for the special packets that indicated the beginning and end
of a single network connection. By graphing those over time, he could start
with a map of what had happened over time in the communication between Ellen's
suborned computer and the unknown computer inside the proverbial Christmas
present.

There were various regular patterns of connections that represented Buck's
apparent working habits and schedule. There were also patterns of sequences of
connections as one action led to other requests for information back and
forth.  Using the map he had made in time, Chip could focus in on an
individual part of the data in greater depth. The parts he was interested in
were those that indicated from their irregular timing that they were being
initiated by a human being who was doing other things than just working with a
sequence of bits and bytes. The connections initiated and responded too solely
by other computer programs followed fairly predictable intervals between
events, but where human interaction was involved, there was a much wider range
of intermittency involved. It might take a person 1 second to click on the
first link on a web page, or it might take them 1 hour if they happened to go
out for lunch before the next click.

Using the statistics of intermittency, Chip focused in on those sequences of
connections that came from human clicks. Selecting those network packets out
into a smaller chunk of data, kind of like a single neighborhood in the city
that Chip was exploring, he started looking for a new map of the streets of
that one neighborhood.  The sequence of on and off bits that make up the
stream of communication between computers has its own structure where the
individual on and off bits are grouped up into chunks of 8 bits called bytes.
A bite might represent a single number between 0 and 255, or it might be used
to represent a single character of the alphabet, or a single part of a photo.
Chip wrote a new little program to interpret the bits in this particular
neighborhood as letters and he started to look for patterns in the words that
were formed from those strings of letters.

Grouping the letters into possible words of different lengths, Chip could run
a program to find the most common words of each length as a way of searching
for exchanges that happened often. The most common substring in the English
language would be the letter "e", but the most common three-letter substring
might be the word "the".  That might have been the case for text in the
English language, but these two computers had not been having a written
conversation in the English language, instead they were exchanging messages
following the rules of interchange that computer scientists called a protocol.
The most commong longer substrings began to reflect the protocols that were
being used. One of the most distinctive common substrings was a sequence of
bytes that when interpreted as letters and punctuation looked like
"User-Agent: Internet Exploder (6.5.1+1997-12-02)". This was part of the
conversation between a web browser and a web server that identified the web
browser that was making a request. It was something like a name or
identification for one of the participants in an online conversation between
the two computers.
