---
layout: post
title: Chapter 22
---

Ellen looked surprised that Chip could somehow know what someone at the mining
company had looked at on her stoically frozen computer, but when Chip dived
behind the desk, she remembered the small computer that he had left behind
that was tapped into her network cable with the little throwing star-shaped
network tap and the nest of ethernet cables that swathed it.

From behind the desk Chip crowed "When I first got this traffic decrypted, I
just saw that it was video data that was streaming from your computer off over
the network to another computer somewhere else. That was all I needed to know
at the time about what was happening on your computer while you couldn't get
into it. But now, I should be able to reconstruct the video streams from the
sent packets and we can watch exactly what they were watching on their end."

Chip emerged from behind the desk with the little credit-card sized circuit
board that was a complete computer even though it looked more like something
that someone had forgotten to put away after the science fair.  He popped out
the thumbnail-sized memory card and grabbed an adapter out of one of his many
pockets that enfolded the memory card and gave it a plug on one of its ends
that could go directly into his laptop.  He extracted the laptop from the
lumbar pocket of his jacket and set it carefully on the desk as far as
possible from the charred remnants of the disk drives as if he didn't want his
laptop to get infected with their malefiscence.  He also didn't join the
wireless network in Ellen's basement for fear of getting tagged by the same
thing that had rendered her PC so outwardly uncommunicative.  Instead, he
paired his laptop with his phone so that its network traffic would go out over
the relatively anonymous endpoint that his cell phone provider maintained on
the public internet.

He needed the internet connection on his laptop because he had no idea how to
do what he had in mind. He tuned out Ellen who perched on the desk over his
shoulder and tuned in to a succession of web forums that led him to better
search terms which led him to more secretive web forums which had discussions
of programs related to what he wanted to accomplish. Finally, following the
online identities of some of the people who were participating in those web
forums, he tracked down other things that they had written online. (How many
different people would use the screen name "darkTrollNuts2345" to talk about
network traffic replay attacks?)

Chip didn't find anyone who talked about doing exactly what he had in mind,
but he saw some things that were close enough that Chip began to put together
a possible solution for taking the streams of tiny chunks of data that flowed
over a computer network and put them together into a video that could be
watched on the screen.  The basic idea of what he was going to try to do was
to set up a virtual computer inside of his laptop that would stand in for
their unknown adversary's computer that was receiving the network traffic. The
virtual adversary that Chip set up had its own virtual computer network inside
and Chip found a couple of tools that could take the packet captures that he
had on the tiny memory card and play them back into the virtual computer
network as if they were really happening.

It was sort of like setting up his own Matrix where the computer that lived
inside his laptop was being fed the exact information over the network that
had gone down the network to their adversary. If Chip could figure out how to
set the virtual computer up similarly enough to the real one on the other end,
he could feed it stimulation that would cause it to react in the same way that
the real computer would have in that situation. This was a type of what is
known as a "replay attack" where input is repeated over again for a nefarious
purpose. Most replay attacks were used for breaking various codes, but in this
case, the code had already been broken, but Chip and Ellen just wanted to see
a literal instant replay of what had been happening shortly before things got
crispy.

It took Chip the better part of two hours to work out the details of his plan.
He copied the contents of the memory chip onto the laptop's internal memory so
that it could stream more quickly over the virtual network device. It took
some additional analysis of the captured network traffic to guess and then
confirm what program had been receiving the data on their adversary's
computer. As much as Chip loved his MacBook Helium for a slim profile and
excellent reliability, he knew that the vast majority of regular computers ran
Windows, so he started with a Windows virtual machine and went looking in the
network data for clues to which video player application could have been used
to view what Ellen had recorded.

He couldn't find any applications that fit what he was seeing on the network,
even looking at open source and cross-platform applications like the ones that
Chip himself preferred.  Finally, he took one of Ellen's drives off the shelf
and plugged it into his laptop. He found many large video files, but the
software that Ellen used to catalog her videos placed a simple "index.html"
web page at the top level to allow anyone with a web browser to see the videos
that were present on that drive. That was the clue Chip needed and he quickly
discerned the signature request and response pattern that a web browser had
made to initiate the video stream, which the scaly, evil person Chip was
imagining on the other end of the network had probably watched in an ordinary
Internet Explorer window.

Chip wrapped up his work into a script, a short informal program that
orchestrated the replaying of traffic at the appropriate times. When he was
done, he looked up at Ellen and asked "Are you ready to see what they were
seeing before they decided to smoke your drives?" She gave an unsteady nod and
Chip thumped the "enter" key on the command he had written.  Inside the
Windows virtual machine, the Internet Explorer window that Chip had opened
blinked into life and began to reel off a flapping, chaotic scene of water
birds splashing in a broad, shining puddle.

The video was shot in the late afternoon and the low sunshine over the bluff
behind the quarry turned the water into a liquid silver gray.  Birds that were
nothing like the juncos and house sparrows that rambled outside Ellen's back
window filled the air above the quicksilver puddle with the sharp wings and
bright beaks of birds who were on their way to some salty tropical
destination instead of stuck in the gray middle of a continent for the winter.

"Do you see anything out of the ordinary?" Chip asked Ellen, regretting his
lack of attention in AP Biology class. He didn't think they had to learn how
to identify birds for the test, but now he wished that the eggheads in
Princeton had decided that was a key skill for the pre-meds of tomorrow.
Instead, everything in the video looked like it had wings and most of them had
tails, but Chip couldn't imagine that any of their differences beyond that
could explain the malicious destruction of all those lovely and low-entropy
bits and bytes.

"Wait, stop, go back!" Ellen exclaimed.

Chip swore. That was not something that he had built his script to do.  He was
impressed enough with himself that he had gotten it running in the first
place. He hadn't thought to lay out a feature road map where he next added
rewind capability and slow motion later in Q4. "I can't stop. But I can go
back to the beginning. Try to remember what time you saw it. We'll just pay
closer attention next time."

He started the script over again after restarting the virtual machine to get
back to a fresh browser window that would accept the messages that it thought
were coming in over the network. Chip paid close attention this time, but it
wasn't lack of attention that made the bird scenes so inscrutable the first
time.

"Yes, I think it was!" Ellen exclaimed when they reached the pivotal moment in
the nested replay of reality that Chip was orchestrating. The original video
recorded the birds meaty bodies into bits, then someone or something had
unwound the bits into a visual expression of the original life of the birds,
and now at one more remove, Chip was re-expressing that visual reality from a
recording of its original playback of a previous original scene.

"Yes, I'm almost sure! Play it again," Ellen demanded.

"I can do another level better than that," Chip grinned. The second time he
had started the playback, he had also started up a screen capture program that
tech support workers used to make how-to videos of how to fix your computer.
Instead of recording some call center flunky clicking on buttons and menus,
this time the screen capture program had captured a movie file on Chip's
laptop of the other movie as it was being played back.  With that final remove
from consensus reality, Chip was now able to open his screen recording in a
proper video player with a jog bar, slow motion replay, and freeze frames.
The purported magic of digital was that this original re-recording of the
playback of a digitally captured scene should be of the same quality as the
very original version when it was first laid down by the light detector of an
expensive camera wielded by its current viewer.

But the dream of digital was never as crisp as it had been made out to be and
the multiple levels of encoding and decoding and resampling had soften the
appearance of most of the pixels so that when Chip keyed forward image by
image to the point that Ellen had exclaimed over twice in a row, he was
looking at a slightly blurry image of a single shorebird in the foreground as
it came in for a landing, highlighted against a background of the white wings
of other birds.

"That's it." Ellen insisted. "That's the one."

"The one what? Who cares about this bird? What did he do?"

"Do?" Ellen gaped with some incredulousness that Chip apparently wasn't even
following the plot of the movie that they were watching together.  "He doesn't
have to do anything, he just has to exist. Being in that place at that time is
plenty."

"Plenty for what?" Chip said exasperated. "Why is someone trying to burn down
your house because of that one seagull!?"

"Oh, Chip, that's no seagull, that's a least tern."

Chip thought, no he knew, that he had mis-heard because he didn't think that
a person could lease a turn of a road and certainly not to make a video of a
bird. "Could you spell that?"

"Least L-E-A-S-T Tern T-E-R-N" Ellen recited. "Sterna antillarum if you
prefer. It's one of the birds on the endangered species list in Iowa. Anyone
who sees one is supposed to report it to the DNR, the Department of Natural
Resources.  They'd come out and do a full investigation of the sighting to see
what it meant for their preservation efforts. Everyone's going to be really
surprised that one of those guys is all the way up here."

"Wait, can't birds fly? Why's it such a big deal if one of these least terns
comes up to this corner of the state?"
